HARD LUCK HANK



FOURTH QUADRANT



by

Steven Campbell





web page: http://www.belvaille.com

http://www.hardluckhank.com



audiobooks: https://www.audible.com/stevencampbell



facebook: http://www.facebook.com/hardluckhank



patreon: https://www.patreon.com/stevencampbell



cover art by Steven Campbell



proofreading by http://lectorsbooks.com/editing





All images and content Copyright © 2022 Steven Campbell

All rights reserved.





Web links may incur a data charge, may not be available at future dates, and are subject to change.





TABLE OF CONTENTS



CHAPTER 1

Visitor

CHAPTER 2

The Furniture Thief

CHAPTER 3

Unwelcome Job

CHAPTER 4

Make it Work

CHAPTER 5

Close Encounter

CHAPTER 6

Co-Workers

CHAPTER 7

Adjunct Overwatch

CHAPTER 8

Safe House?

CHAPTER 9

Newsworthy

CHAPTER 10

The Lame Outdoors

CHAPTER 11

The Hunters

CHAPTER 12

Back to Work

CHAPTER 13

Misfit Toys

CHAPTER 14

Brief News Update

CHAPTER 15

Odd Coupling

CHAPTER 16

The Sting

CHAPTER 17

Regroup

CHAPTER 18

The Assistants

CHAPTER 19

Meeting of the Mindless

CHAPTER 20

Metal Mugging

CHAPTER 21

Assaulting the Mob

CHAPTER 22

B Team

CHAPTER 23

Fire and Water

CHAPTER 24

The End, Seriously





CHAPTER 1


Visitor



You might say that tonight was a good night to be an aristocrat from the wealthiest family in the galaxy. Of course, you could speak those words at almost any time with a relative certainty they would ring true. Being born into one of the most influential families in the history of families was rarely viewed as a situation worthy of regret.

But in a great snub to tradition, tonight was a very bad night indeed to be such an aristocrat.

The Ank embassy was one of the larger and more ostentatious consulates in the city. Despite the Ank “empire” possessing only one inhabited planet, the bankers of the galaxy were stupendously influential.

And behind the Bank Lords, and August Auditors, and Exalted Executors of the Ank nation was the royal family. While they had very little real power in constitutional terms, they were the richest family in their nation—which gave them real power in Ank terms.

And tonight, almost the entire royal family was assembled within the embassy on Belvaille in preparation for the upcoming summit. They had arrived early to beat the rush and to try and get in some personal time viewing the splendors of the Upper City.

The embassy compound was approximately forty acres of opulence. It sported five gardens, eight swimming pools, ten administration buildings, twelve housing complexes, four mansions, and twelve full-service financial institutions.

The security protection the embassy employed was robust. The whole area was shielded by a massive electrified wall and fence, with numerous motion, electromagnetic, and visual sensors. The grounds were patrolled by thirty soldiers provided by the Colmarian Navy, forty-six soldiers provided by the Ank military, and, at the moment, twenty-two private security officers employed by the royal family itself.

As they had every night for the past week, the royals were hosting a dinner party that spanned all the mansions, some of the meticulously manicured grounds, and several of the administration buildings. Your relative importance within the Ank empire, which usually meant your wealth, determined your designated location within the party. Minor officials were consigned to a corner in the basement of the embassy while the richest bank owners were given places in the primary residence within snooting distance of the royal family.

The embassy grounds were illuminated with tasteful lamps situated along the walking paths that wound through the fenced terrain. But they were not so bright as to reach every corner of the property. So on nights like tonight, there were huge swaths of the embassy that were cloaked in blackness.

In one of those dark areas, what looked like eight or so different pieces of gold appeared in the air. They quickly grew in size and moved toward each other. In a moment, a figure stood in their place: a four-armed, metallic being of medium size and build.

The gold of its armor wasn’t really elemental gold. It was a complex alloy that merely appeared that shade. While the color was an extremely flamboyant choice for an assassin, it was required to allow the armor to pass through dimensions—and give its owner the ability to transport itself directly into secured embassies.

At that moment, a soldier assigned by the Colmarian Navy passed into the shadows behind one of the swimming pool pump buildings and saw the glimmer of light on polished metal. Before the soldier could react, two of the four arms on the assassin’s armor raised, and thin streams of light—like dim lasers—projected outward and connected with the soldier.

Antiparticles hit the man at velocities nearing the speed of light. While the mass of the particles was so tiny that their impacts were insignificant, the antiparticles entangled with the regular matter of the soldier: his clothes, his armor, his skin, his muscles. The particles annihilated one another, producing tiny bits of light and radiation.

Within a fraction of a second, two holes had been effectively drilled into the soldier, similar to bullet wounds. Except in this case, there were no gaping exit wounds. They were almost perfectly cylindrical holes, 5,000 microns in width—about the size of eighty body hairs or the width of a large hypodermic needle.

But unlike a hypodermic which politely pushed tissue out of the way, the beams obliterated all cells they touched. Even so, the damage would not be severe if they had not been exactly targeted to the soldier’s brain stem and heart.

As it was, his eyes rolled back and he slumped to the ground.

The golden assassin’s feet morphed into wheels and it rolled silently, and with purpose, through the grounds. Four more Colmarian soldiers, two Ank military, one royal guard, and a caterer all died before they saw or heard anything.

It wasn’t just that the assassin had perfect aim and perfect reflexes. It was able to blink in and out of visibility. It would do this every few seconds. The assassin would scan and plot its surroundings, turn invisible, and reappear after it had moved. Then it would repeat—never adhering to any set pattern that could be deduced or anticipated.

Not only was the assassin nearly impossible to track and detect before it detected you, but the embassy security, despite their large numbers, were woefully underequipped.

The embassy catered to banking activities, those interested in banking activities, and the functionaries and tributaries of banks. It was a business. And having an army march around toting hi-tech implements of destruction was universally off-putting to business and therefore not appreciated.

Only two of the many guards outside the party actually spotted the assassin and they died before their bodies even had a chance to elevate their pulse rates.



Inside the primary mansion, the royal family held court.

Quite literally, as most of the extended royal family was in attendance. Far-flung Earls, thirty-eighth in line to the throne, stood in the corners munching on cold hors d’oeuvres. The food was cold because it had already wound its way past tier after tier of more senior royals and these were the leftovers.

Of course, every bite was still delicious and composed of food stuffs that cost a small fortune. So shed not a tear that these last meals were in any way disappointing.

Everything in this party was conducted in the strictest hierarchical order. And it didn’t look or feel stilted or repressive because everyone here was beyond fortunate. Of the fifty-two royals present, whose collected lives totaled more than 8,200 years, only about six months had been spent in an actual occupation.

It had been a rebellious and iconoclastic Major Minor who worked as a financial auditor for one summer and fall. But it was felt that doing so subverted the prestige of all royals. So it was made clear that if he continued to “work,” it would result in the forfeiture of his title and privileges. And then the rebellious little lord promptly stopped rebelling.

The lesser royals were not at all bitter about their positions in general. That was a prime distinction between self-made people and those born into wealth. A Baroness could not scheme and study and enterprise her way into being a Duchess. She either inherited that rank or she did not. The Ank could not marry above or below their stations and the days when nobles murdered one another to claim their titles was many tens of thousands of years in the past.

All the royals, their servants, their assistants, and officials, were members of the Ank species. There were no entities in the primary mansion who weren’t Ank.

Physically, Ank were bipedal creatures with two arms, two legs, and a head. Their skin was a shimmering, translucent white that had the appearance of being wet but was actually completely dry, lacking even superficial skin oils.

Once an Ank reached maturity, they all had the exact same height and voice and overall physical appearance. It was said that not even a mother could tell her children apart. Not even son from daughter or distinguish them from someone else’s children.

As you can imagine, this made it difficult to be hierarchical when they couldn’t tell each other apart without lengthy questioning or DNA tests. In consequence of their similarities, the Ank had long ago learned to differentiate themselves by decorating their clothing.

All Ank wore full-length white robes. Every square inch of their robes was festooned with various items. Totems, tokens, symbols, slogans, badges, beads, and anything else they fancied. Once placed, they never willingly removed them—because it was their actual identity.

You came to know an Ank by their robes—specifically, the trinkets and doodads they had placed on them and in what locations.

They would conduct ceremonies, often on birthdays or important anniversaries, to add a new piece to their robes. It wasn’t just because it was a significant change in their appearance, it was so the people in their life would be aware of it. If you didn’t know your best friend added new items to their robe, you might not be able to recognize them.

The Lord High Provosh Mastere—whose official title was quite a bit longer than that—held the common name of Jemmos-Salfor. And he was the highest-ranking noble in the Ank aristocracy along with his wife, the Lord High Provorsh Mastera Jemnos-Salshor.

The Ank did not place much emphasis on genders. There was almost no sexual polymorphism in their species, and it took a lengthy and intrusive physical exam to tell the various genders apart—there being more than two. The titles were mere tradition. But a Duke could be a woman and a Duchess a man, and every shade and shape in between.

The Ank “empire” possessed no military to speak of, no coveted natural resources, no amazing physical abilities or characteristics, and no tremendous technology. As nation-states went, they should have been less than a footnote in the galaxy when compared with empires that spanned millions of inhabited solar systems.

The tiny empire managed to thrive by becoming masters of banking and money and transactions of all sorts. After so many millennia, that predisposition was on display everywhere.

Every item in the primary mansion held a price tag. Not only showing the original purchase cost, but maintenance costs, depreciation, amortization, financing, resale value, prospective buyers, etc. It appeared as if anything and everything was for sale inside the embassy, but it was just how their culture operated. Someone breathlessly describing their summer vacation would more often than not utilize financial statements.

It was this strict monitoring of debits and credits and reversals that made the Ank appear stodgy and superficial to most of the other empires.

But it wasn’t that Ank had recognized their insignificant species had no hope of competing with the overwhelmingly larger regions around them and thus turned to money. No, it was a quirk of biology and genetics: Ank were simply extraordinarily good at finance.

Nearly every advanced concept of economics and commerce was devised by the Ank. So many, that only a small fraction of their ideas was utilized outside of their home world. Not because of their ineffective methodology or instruments, but because no other species had the capability to understand them.

This fundamental fact of Ank consciousness didn’t fully develop until after puberty. The Ank ascension into adulthood was one of the largest changes any intelligent species undertook in the galaxy—besides the handful of super-weird ones that morphed into entirely other things. The Sednardis species, for example, started out as puddles of gelatinous slime and at fourteen cycles would become something that strongly resembled, in form and function, a shortwave radio.

Because of this huge change in mentalities, Ank children were given a wide berth. Parents simply could not fathom their own kids and their non-comprehension of numerical indoctrination. And the reverse was more than true.

However, children were permitted to be children. The Ank found that attempting to subvert nature returned negative dividends. And as the Ank said: The bottom line is the top—though they usually stated that via formula.



So upstairs, at the mansion embassy, far from the adults and their stratified organization, the kids played.

Young royals of every tier scampered and frolicked like the adolescents they were. Their little robes barely had any pieces on them and what could be seen instead was the complex line insignias of their particular houses. Over time, those lines would be more and more obscured by whatever items were placed over top of them.

Several nannies and custodians waited at the ends of the halls in case the mischief overstepped or someone needed help in the bathroom. But even those Ank trained to be the caretakers of children weren’t very good at it. So they let the kids sort themselves out when possible and checked the cameras and listened on the intercom now and then.

The custodians had done their level best to remove anything that could injure the children. But since they were entirely unable to comprehend their impulses, there was lethality lurking everywhere. Ank children tended to quickly learn an appreciation of sharp objects, hot objects, and hard surfaces. If there was one thing that nannies were skilled at, it was first aid.

The children had mostly separated themselves by age groups. They had not learned to appreciate any hierarchy other than that as of yet.

The oldest group, scant years or even months away from the Great Change of their species, were playing a sort of “house.” It was a make-believe extended family with twelve wives, eight husbands, six children, two mothers-in-law, and a great-grandmother.

And while there were some hints at sexuality in this game, most of their activities were focused on debates about how they should pool their resources to afford college for the kids and the best return on summer homes. And then there was Grannie, who was adamant about playing two more years of full-contact glocken so she could secure an enviable retirement pension.

The next-younger group played a rambunctious game of “lenders and burglars.” It was a very typical children’s activity pitting Good against Bad. But there wasn’t much emphasis on guns or violence. There were, however, four debtor’s prisons and one white-collar penitentiary for lenders who abused the terms of their agreements.

A small group of odd children kept to themselves. None of the others could really figure out what they were doing and left them alone. They were putting on a play composed of great historical figures of Ank society—or at least the high parts that stuck out to a kid. Lots of momentous speeches like, “We are interested in the best interest of interest.” Followed by, “You can have some of the sum and a difference in difference.” They didn’t know what those words meant, but they stated them with bombastic flair.

The largest pool of children was the youngest. It wasn’t that the Ank had a high birthrate, it was actually devastatingly low. But the group was composed of all those too young to play with the others and thus comprised everything from infants to toddlers to preschoolers. Many were doing their own activities, such as sleeping, but quite a few were playing a loose game of “hide-and-seek.”

The young Maltor Ne-Princess carried a babe in her arms as she searched for a hiding place. She wasn’t entirely sure if she was “it,” or she was supposed to be counting, or if the game was actually still being played—at this age, most games had only the vaguest of rules, which could change from moment to moment.

She absolutely adored the baby in her arms. It was so small! She had been carrying it around for nearly thirty minutes, only stopping now and then to tickle its feet.

The babe had no items of any sort on its robes. At infancy, any items placed would be too small to be noticed on an adult, and the tokens were meant to remain in place throughout life. Not only that, but infants tended to put components of significance and identity into their mouths or otherwise lose them.

The Ne-Princess hurried with the baby into what appeared to be a bedroom. She ran to the closet and threw open its wide doors to see if it would be a good place to hide. Inside, there was row after row of exotic wine bottles. The value of the wine, destined to be drank and transmuted into urine, was more than the average Colmarian worker earned over the course of 42,000 lifetimes.

The Ne-Princess noticed a large subcabinet. It was an insulated box, filled with wine that had to be kept at a precise temperature, humidity, and light exposure. The Ne-Princess removed all those bottles and placed the baby inside. It was perfect. No one would think to look in such a small container. And it gave her a break from holding the child, which was growing quite heavy in her young arms.

She ensconced herself at the rear of the wine cellar, pushing several boxes aside to make room. But she peered through cracks to watch the door. She wanted to see her pursuers—if they were still playing, that is—pass by the box, oblivious to her ingenious hiding location for the baby.

It was a dreadfully long and tedious wait: Minutes! But her patience was soon to be rewarded as she heard commotion outside. Clearly the game had transcended to an exciting new level.

She saw the door to the cellar open wide, but no one was there. She held her breath, and kept still. Presumably the child who opened the door was standing behind it, waiting for her to make a run for it. But she would not be goaded into revealing herself.

And then, out of nowhere, there appeared a tall golden figure with four arms, looking right at her.





CHAPTER 2


The Furniture Thief



“This one is all tables, too,” I yelled to my business associates.

I stood in front of a gaping shipping container, surveying the contents. The container was forty feet long, ten feet tall, nine feet wide, constructed of high-grade polymers, and was used to transport goods to other worlds. We were in a large warehouse with hundreds of similar containers.

My partner was not pleased as he approached, keeping a digital tally of our finds.

“Didn’t we get any beds?” Podiver Vance asked, dismayed. “Belvaille needs beds. I can make money off beds. No one needs this many tables and chairs.”

“There were two with couches. Those can kind of be used as beds,” I said.

“Don’t be vulgar,” he replied, walking away to check on the progress of the other two men working for him in the warehouse.

Podiver was an enormously tall and slender man. He stood about ten feet but his shoulders might have only been a scant foot and a half wide. I’d seen videos of stick insects and that was close to what he resembled. He could practically hide behind a blade of grass—assuming it was outrageously long.

Podiver Vance was a gang boss on the planet Belvaille in the city of Belvaille—which was the only city on the planet. Though it was technically two cities, upper and lower. Podiver was a great businessman, capable of selling just about anything to anyone. He was also, like me, a lifelong criminal.

I enjoyed working with Podiver. You knew he was going to cheat you, but he was fair about it.

I closed the container and moved to the next one. At this rate, I figured it was going to take all night to survey the goods. As I walked, I called Podiver on my tele. It was odd to lose track of such a tall alien, but the mountain of containers made that possible.

“You know,” I said to him, “we’re not going to really know what’s inside these containers until they’re emptied. The back half or middle half or whatever half could be filled with beds—or sacks of money—and we’d never know until we pull it out.”

“I’m not going to hire people to unload these crates, store them, sort them, and ship them,” he replied testily. “I’m just going to sell the whole lot. It’s not worth the effort.”

“Oh, good,” I replied. “My feet are starting to hurt on this hard floor.”

I was in my bare feet. I couldn’t really wear shoes or socks. Because of my mutation, I was tremendously heavy and nothing short of cast iron buckets would last very long on my feet. And I didn’t feel like listening to cast iron buckets clang around.

“You’re always complaining, Hank.”

“No, I’m not,” I complained.

“Even so, save some for the rest of us,” he said, ending the call.

It was about fifteen minutes of container searching later when I heard some vague shouting echoing around the warehouse. It was a sound I hadn’t remotely expected to hear during this mundane job. The stacks and stacks of containers and metal walls of the building made it impossible to discern exactly what was going on or even the direction it originated.

“Hey, what’s happening?” I asked on my tele to the group.

At first, I figured someone had some chairs fall on them. Maybe the contents spilled out of a container. Or maybe they were loudly bemoaning their existence as furniture accountants. But it was multiple voices and not cries of anguish or consternation.

Then I heard gunfire. It was unmistakable. I’d heard it so many times in my life I could just about tell if the person firing the gun had enough protein in their diet and what their favorite color was.

I hurried this way and that way and finally tracked the proper direction of the shooting and headed as quickly as I could to it.

However, that was not very quick. While I was tremendously strong, I was not proportionately as strong as my weight. It was like having a super-powered jet engine, which would be unbelievably fast in a car—or even a jet—but it was instead trying to push around a galactic space cruiser.

It took some minutes for me to cross to the area of disturbance. I saw both of Podiver Vance’s men taking cover behind crates. They didn’t look hurt, but they looked scared as hell. No one had anticipated a gun fight.

Ahead of us was a hallway linking some offices, and people were firing from it. I couldn’t tell how many but at least two.

“What’s happening?” I yelled to one of Podiver’s men.

But he was crouched on the ground, alternately covering his face, ears, head, and chest. He would be no help.

I moved closer to the other man, who was at least a bit more collected.

“Hey—” I began.

“You’re the neck-breaker thug. Do something before we get shot to hell!” he demanded.

I gingerly took out my revolver shotgun. It was essentially a sawed-off double barrel with a rotating cylinder. It fired both barrels at each pull of the trigger for a total of three shots. The handles used to be sapphires, but now they were mother-of-pearl.

I kept meaning to practice with it. I’d had the weapon for a few years now, but I never got around to it. Of the many things I wasn’t good at, marksmanship was one of them. And while being a lousy shot didn’t matter too much for most people, it tended to be a problem in my line of work.

I moved around to try and get a look at what was going on. There were several people by the door ahead taking turns looking and firing pistols.

“Well? You waiting for them to kill us or what?” Podiver’s man asked.

I raised my gun. I knew I was too far away to hit anything, but I hoped that someone shooting back might scare them off. I tried to remember the things my police friend, MTB, had told me about shooting: feet wide and balanced, loose but firm grip, take aim, favor one eye—but don’t close the other unless you know what’s going on around you, take deep breaths and then exhale half a breath and hold, slowly squeeze the trigger and keep the target focused.

I did all that. But kind of wrong. I think I favored my exhale, held the trigger, loosened my feet, and closed my eyes.

Boom!

The recoil of a twin 12-gauge sawed-off was considerable, but not to me. Unfortunately, my shots had not traversed the forty feet to the doorway and disabled our assailants as I had intended.

No. The pellets hit the metal floor about ten feet in front of me. Metal, being what it is, caused the shotgun pellets to ricochet in crazy patterns, hitting containers and more containers and—

“Ah! Dammit!” the unfortunate business associate in front of me exclaimed.

He clutched the back of his leg and looked at me with hateful eyes.

“You’ve been a crook your whole life, Hank! How are you so bad at it?”

“Sorry,” I said.

I put away my gun before I was charged with war crimes. I moved forward, next to my injured comrade, to rethink my strategy.

It was some tense moments, but I figured, if they were waiting back there in the offices, there can’t be that many of them. They were still taking pot shots from the safety of cover.

“Here, don’t lose this,” I said, handing the injured man the gun I had just shot him with.

“What? Are you kidding me?” he asked incredulously. But he kept it. I think because he was too stunned to do otherwise.

I stood up and charged forward. But I went at an angle. I wasn’t going to go through that doorway where they were all waiting.

I went through the wall.

Smashing through a wall sure sounds cool and exciting and intimidating. But it’s not any of those things. I had braced myself for it, closed my eyes—like I was trying to make a precision shot with a firearm—and when I crashed into that wall, I still wasn’t prepared.

My weight carried me through, but it wasn’t graceful and it sure as hell wasn’t pretty. Warehouses don’t receive much cleaning in the best of times and no one ever cleans the insides of walls. So years of dust and debris and mold burst forth in a mad dash for freedom and mixed with the spray from a broken water pipe.

Even if I wasn’t coated in a paste of mild carcinogens I still wouldn’t have been able to see anything because the air was saturated with rubbish.

Men yelled and guns fired. I was effectively blind and off-balance and it felt like there was a half pound of rat turds in my mouth.

Maybe I should have kept blasting with my shotgun.

I stumbled and bumbled and felt someone doing likewise at my feet. I figured I must have come out of the wall right next to where one of the attackers was crouching. I reached down and grabbed hold of him. I got a leg or arm—I couldn’t see which, and it didn’t matter.

There was a literal light at the end of the tunnel. Far to my right there were double doors that were the exit. They had reinforced windows set in each door. I could see two dots of light.

I dragged the man in my right hand and headed away from this mess. I got shot in the face once. Twice. Three times.

How the hell were these guys such good shots? There was like an avalanche of garbage and water and some deadeye was plinking me in the nose like he did this every week.

However, as good as he was with a pistol, I could see the sparks from the muzzle. The short barrel of the gun was not long enough to fully burn all the gunpowder—because crooks like this tended to use the biggest, baddest shells they could find. So all that unburned powder escapes the barrel and burns right in front of the gun. It was like a fireworks display. Except it was also smashing lead bullets on my skull.

“Ow. Ow!” I said, and then I grabbed hold of the shooter with my left hand.

I had him by the shoulder as I dragged him and the other guy along.

There were people in front of us—I saw them moving back and forth in front of the door lights. Maybe only I was blinded? Or they all had dust-proof super vision. But whoever they were, they were hurrying backwards away from me and I saw the doors fly open.

I got to the fresh air outside and I threw the two men down to the parking area, which was maybe six feet below. They landed on the asphalt and I took a moment to wipe off some of the slime from my face. My hands were just as slimy so I had to use the inside of my shirt.

Four men were huddled in the parking spots directly in front of me recovering their wits, their feet, and their guns. They were also cleaning off the wet muck that had sprayed me.

They were all, broadly speaking, Colmarians. No floating heads or lasers coming out of their ears. But they were all dramatically different in physical appearance, being different species. From their actions, mannerisms, and the fact they had attacked us, I believed they were young, stupid criminals.

“So, hey,” I began casually. “What’s going on?”

“Don’t tell him nothing,” one in the back said. He looked poised to begin shooting again.

“Hank,” another guy on the ground said. I think the one I had by the leg. “We didn’t know you was in there.”

“I am. But what were you trying to do?”

“None of your business,” the mean guy sneered.

“But it is. This is literally my business,” I said.

“Yeah, but what’s in there? What were you doing before…you know, this?” Ground Guy asked.

“Selling furniture,” I said.

“Stolen?” he asked.

“Obviously. But what were you doing?” I asked.

“Don’t say nothing,” Mean Guy said.

“We’re trying to rob the casino. Reach the counting room. But you stopped us.”

I looked back at the warehouse. Back at them.

“This look like a casino to you? This is the warehouse district and that’s a warehouse—whose walls are apparently filled with rotten flour and asbestos,” I said, wiping more crud from my face.

“We got the address,” Mean Guy challenged.

“You make it sound like you weren’t just in there. That I wasn’t in there. Casinos are six blocks that way and two blocks north,” I said, pointing. “Look for a ton of people gambling. You can’t miss them.”

I saw Podiver Vance hanging back behind the double doors, watching how things progressed. He was so tall he probably had to sit down to look through the windows. But he knew enough to let me work.

“Where did you get this furniture?” Mean Guy questioned, looking for holes in my story.

“We nabbed like 300 containers from a cargo hauler last week. Been moving it around since then. Mostly tables and chairs,” I said.

“My brother-in-law needs chairs for his bar. Are they any good?” Ground Guy asked.

“Eh. But they aren’t bar stools,” I said.

“No. He needs them for the restaurant part,” he replied.

“They would work for that. How many do you need?” I asked.

“He’s got…thirteen double tables. It’s like eleven chairs each. How many is that?” he asked.

There was an awkward, ignorant pause and a lot of furrowed brows amongst the would-be casino bandits.

“If I was good at math, I wouldn’t be getting shot in the face for a living,” I replied.

“11 times 13 is 143!” another guy said proudly.

“Nerd,” Mean Guy snickered.

“How much they cost?” Ground Guy asked.

“Six credits each. That’s a co-worker price,” I stated.

“Nice. I know that’s a good deal. Okay, put me down for…143. You’ll still have them?” he asked.

“Yeah, they’re not going to fly away anytime soon. We got twice as many chairs as there are butts in Belvaille. Just hit me back in a day or two,” I said.

“Alright. We got to, you know, do that thing. Where you say the casinos is at?”

“Six blocks west. Two blocks north. That’s the main drag. The lower quality ones are one more block northwest. Actually, there’s a bunch of little card shops all around it. But you can’t miss the casinos. Bright. Noisy. You know: casinos,” I said.

The men all picked themselves up and got organized. They whispered for a bit, looking back at me a few times. Then they all headed out the direction I had indicated.

Mean Guy was last to go and he pointed at me and kind of hissed through his teeth before he rejoined his crew.

It was so odd I had to chuckle.

Podiver Vance came out to join me when it was all safe. The other guys in our crew remained inside somewhere. Probably getting first aid for the one I inadvertently shot.

“These kids today,” Podiver said, shaking his head in dismay at the retreating furniture fighters.

“Yeah. People hear that Belvaille is a good place to go if you’re a criminal. So they all eagerly come here and the first thing they do is try and rob the place. Like we haven’t been perfecting criminals for a thousand years in this city,” I said.

“If they raise so much as a finger in anger near those casinos, they’ll be cut to ribbons,” Podiver said soberly.

“I know. We’re never going to sell those stupid chairs.”





CHAPTER 3


Unwelcome Job



I came home to my apartment later that night.

I lived with my butler, Cliston. Technically, he owned this flat and I was merely leeching off him. I could afford to rent an apartment, but not a nice place like this.

“Where have you been?” a voice asked from the darkness of my living room.

I instinctively reached for my shotgun. I kind of fumbled the weapon, and it went sliding across the buffed tile floor. It was stopped by a booted foot. I turned on the lights and saw Garm sitting on my couch, staring down at my gun.

“What are you doing here?” I asked her.

Garm was the Adjunct Overwatch of the city. The Lower City. She was kind of a cross between a mayor, a military officer, and Secretary of Tourism. She was also a Quadrad assassin. I dated her once…briefly…in another universe. She was short, wiry, cunning, alert, and a total scumbag of a crook. She was wearing her uniform, which was formfitting and functional, but did have some military insignias and medals—not to mention a sidearm on her hip.

As Garm looked at my shotgun, which I had more or less flung at her feet in self-defense, she seemed to be questioning her decision to be here.

Finally, she sighed.

“I need your help,” she stated. “This is the next in line to the throne of the Ank Empire.”

She turned her head. A few feet away on the couch was a tiny Ank, its robes piled up around it. At this distance, its face looked almost completely white with no features at all.

“Um. Greetings Your Majesty. Forgive this apartment for...disorder-liness upon...this occasion,” I said, bowing half-heartedly. “My Dredel Led butler is on sabbatical. Um, would you care for some refreshments?”

“Hank. It’s an infant. It can’t speak or understand you.”

“Like I’m supposed to know the growth patterns of every species in the galaxy,” I replied. “Some races are really short. So is it like a king?”

“Or queen. But they call it Lord High Provosh Mastere,” she said.

“Wait. You don’t know if it’s a boy or girl? Or some other, alien gender?”

“What’s that matter?”

“Matters to him.”

“Then you can give it dating advice if it lives that long. Come in and shut your mouth. I don’t have much time.”

I approached, recovered my shotgun, and Garm stood up.

“Cliston is away? For how long?” she asked.

“I don’t know. He didn’t say. But my butler makes the rules.”

“Damn. That complicates things. Alright. What I’m about to show you is top secret,” she said, looking at me gravely.

She waited.

“Well? What do you want me to say?” I asked. “I don’t know the code words or secret handshakes if that’s what you’re expecting.”

“Just keep your mouth shut. These are security scans we recovered from the Ank embassy here on Belvaille earlier tonight.”

A holographic display showed the embassy.

“Wow. Those are some nice fountains,” I said, admiring.

“Hush up and watch.”

I saw what looked like a gold robot teleport around and kill…everyone. Every damn thing in that entire compound without anyone getting off a shot.

“I know that armor,” I said.

“You do?”

“Yeah. It was a…Missing…Messanj…something battlesuit,” I said.

“It’s amazing that our universes were so similar. Messahn battlesuit. We thought they were all lost. Do you know how to defeat it?” she asked hopefully.

“That was like a thousand years ago. I can barely remember yesterday. But I don’t think I really fought it. There was some gal wearing it. A shapechanger,” I said.

“Well? And then what?”

“She was cute. But you know, she was a shapechanger. So maybe it was really a guy. Or a lizard-sponge.”

“That’s all you remember? That a cute girl was inside?” she asked, annoyed.

“It was…uh…no, that’s all I remember.”

“Forget it. That assassin I just showed you wiped out the entire royal family, all their diplomats, and about a hundred security personnel. Including some of my people.”

“That’s the sole survivor?” I asked, pointing at the boy or girl or otherwise king.

“Yeah. Was in a wine cooler for some reason. The assassin probably didn’t scan or open it because…why would they?”

“So you want me to clean up the bodies at the embassy or something?” I asked.

“No. Your assignment is to protect that baby from the assassin.”

“Uh. Assignment denied. No.”

“Hank—” she began.

“If you wanted me to take a job beating a battlesuit, showing me a video of it flawlessly murdering a block full of soldiers and aristocrats isn’t how you do it. No, thank you.”

“I don’t want you to fight it. I want you to hide that kid,” she said.

“Garm. I just came back from my last assignment. I was supposed to count stolen furniture. That’s it. Not steal it. Not ransom it. Just count it and sell it. And even in that simple task I shot one of my co-workers by accident. What makes you think I can beat a super assassin? You hide him. Are you too busy to protect royalty? Isn’t that your job?”

“I have the even worse assignment of actually trying to hunt down and neutralize that assassin. You just have to stay out of sight. If you see me, you’re in exactly the wrong place, because I’m out looking for the battlesuit.”

“Garm. I’m a petty crook and furniture pirate.”

“Exactly. No one is looking for you. All I have access to are military facilities, and they can’t stop someone from teleporting in and killing a child. You know this city and you’re bulletproof.”

“I’m not battlesuit-laser proof!”

“Yeah. We think they might be streams of antiparticles,” Garm muttered.

“See? I don’t even know what that means. Get someone else for this. You have a whole army at your disposal.”

“We have to hide it, not guard it—because as you saw, guards don’t work too well. I can’t trust half the police in the city, and I can’t gamble I’d get the right half. Out of all the no-names and crooks who might be able to hide him, you’re the only one with even a few scruples,” she said.

“I’m not…I won’t do it,” I said firmly.

“Hank. You know the Ank empire?” she asked.

“Not personally. I don’t call them up and ask if they have any furniture I can steal.”

“Do you know what a quadrant is?”

“Yeah, that’s a fancy dessert cake. Little sprinkles and ripples, right?” I asked.

“No. It’s a unit of space. Normally a quadrant has thousands, tens of thousands, of populated solar systems in it. The Ank are designated the Fourth Quadrant in the galaxy. The fourth is just them. Their one planet. That’s how important they are.”

“Good for them.”

“Our empire, the Colmarian Confederation—” she began.

“I know where we live.”

“—owes them money. A lot of money. And their entire royal…everyone, was just assassinated in our empire under our protection. That child is worth, conservatively speaking, about 700,000…septillion credits.”

“See. If you said he was worth 700,000, I would have said it’s just at the very edge of my pay grade.”

“Thousand-septillion,” she corrected.

“Yeah, I get it. This is way beyond my understanding, comfort, and competence. I have no idea why you came to me. I’m trying to tell you I’m not the person for this job. I’ll gladly help you mop some floors or lend you some stolen chairs, or slap around some other sleazebags like me, but I can’t do this. I wouldn’t know how. I’ll get that child killed and probably myself. I’m sorry, but no. Best of luck.”

At that, the baby gurgled at me. I think it was agreeing with my assessment.

“Hank!” Garm yelled, getting as close as she could to my face, which wasn’t very close given her small stature and my bulk. “I’m responsible for security in this city. If that kid dies, not only will our empire likely go bankrupt, as the Ank take their anger out on our finances, but I personally will be fined, court-martialed, executed, and fined again. And I swear—I give you my solemn Quadrad oath—that before I am killed, I will say I asked you for help and you refused.”

“Damn, Garm.”

“I have no one else. That is the richest baby, in the richest family, in the richest empire in the galaxy—it just doesn’t know it yet. There’s no one else I can trust with 700,000 septillion credits.”

“Except me? What makes me so wonderful?”

“You have a unique combination of laziness, character, stupidity, and charm. And you’re a bulletproof thug who can walk through walls,” she said.

I was about to ask when she continued.

“That was my warehouse you messed up, by the way. I own a lot of buildings. But don’t let that get around.”

“Yeah, I’ll keep it with all the other top-secret details I’ve learned in the last few minutes. Garm. I don’t know infants. I break stuff all the time by mistake. You know that. I’m a mutant. I’m the worst possible person to be a babysitter. I’ll probably sit on him or misplace him. How long does he need to be hidden?” I asked.

“You know there’s a major diplomatic summit in a few months, right?”

“Why would I know that?”

“Well, there is. Nearly every empire in the galaxy will be here. The Ank are sending a full military detachment ahead of time. They can take possession of the royal and deal with the battlesuit. They should be here in three weeks,” she said.

“Three weeks? Are they pushing their ships here? Why so long?”

“Hank. It’s outer space. It’s big.”

“I didn’t want to keep him for the night. And you’re saying three weeks? No way.”

“Hank—”

“No, Garm. Listen. I’m a criminal. I do dangerous stuff for a living. But I have to evaluate every job I take. Is the risk worth it? And yeah, this is a charity case. But if I fail, which is almost certain, then I’m in the same shape you are. I’m the guy who got the last King or Queen or Arch-Jester killed. Then I’m as good as dead. If I walk away, you can rat me out and say what a greedy coward I am. But at least some other fall guy will take the blame. No one will look at me, at my work history of robbing, fighting, and extortion and think I was a suitable candidate for royal bodyguard and wet nurse. I’m sorry, Garm.”





CHAPTER 4


Make it Work



I was sitting in a pub around the corner from where I lived. This area of the city was diverse and cosmopolitan. A lot of foreign—as in other galactic empires—had administration buildings nearby. So the streets were filled with creatures of every sort, bustling along on their versions of legs.

“You want another one, Hank?” the bartender asked. Four empty glasses were already in front of me.

I came to this place because it had a nice atmosphere, it was close, and because of their diverse clientele. They also had reinforced bar stools and tables to accommodate wildly different species, and I was able to sit down without breaking anything.

“Sure,” I replied.

“You drowning your sorrows?” he asked.

“Not likely. My sorrows know how to swim.”

He poured me another glass.

“You get a lot of aliens here, right?” I asked.

“Sure. But, you know, we’re all aliens.”

“Two more drinks and I can do philosophy. How do you feed them all? You can’t have every type of food and drink available. This place isn’t that big,” I said.

“There’s way more common ground among biological species than you might guess. We can do a little mixing and matching, but it’s actually not that hard. It might not be the best meal they ever had, but it will keep them going.”

“Come on. There’s got to be some who can’t eat anything you serve. Any really weird ones?” I asked.

“Oh, yeah. Gandrine, obviously. They eat rocks or something. Basti-Tane species ‘eat’ certain temperatures of fire. We don’t actually have to cook for them, we just turn on the burners. But it has to be exactly the right setting.”

“Cool. Any others?”

“There’s a million. The Flor Sandriaks. They eat hydrochloric acid. Or sulfuric acid. Some acid. But we can’t carry it because it’s too difficult to store and we rarely see them,” he said.

“I heard about the Mono…Mombo…some giant furry mammal. Huge, ten legs. Anyway, they eat radioactive ore. Not just the energy from it; they chew up whole piles of gravel. So it keeps bubbling in their guts giving them fuel,” I said.

“Nice.”

“Yeah. And when they get sick, they actually puke up a fermented wine,” I said. “Can you imagine that? ‘Oh, no, I got a bad batch of uranium. This isn’t sitting well. Bleaugh! Hey, who wants champagne?’”

“Hah. And obviously the Keilvin Kamigan drain life forces. We can’t exactly serve that around here,” he said.

“That’s an old crook’s tale. My favorite taxi driver is one and he’s never drained anything. He eats background radiation—probably saving us all from cancer.”

“No one is going to tell you they’re a vampire. They have to keep it secret,” he explained.

“I’d tell people. I’d print it on a t-shirt. Who’s going to mess with you? Make my job easier.”

“Uh, speaking of which,” he began uneasily. “We’ll pay our protection money tomorrow. I haven’t had a chance to go to the bank and sort things out.”

“Don’t sweat it. I’m not on the clock right now.”

The bartender relaxed.

“There’s definitely some oddball species out there,” he mused. “But most of them are pretty minor. Like a planet here and there. I guess if you spend all your time finding crazy food, there’s no time left over to build a decent empire.”

“Yeah. But what confuses me is there are some major races—with real holdings—and no one knows what they eat. No clue,” I said.

“Like who, for instance?”

“I don’t know, there’s a bunch. Uh…how about…the Ank? What do they eat? It’s not meat. It’s not grains. It’s not sugars. Starches,” I said.

“How do you know?”

“It’s just what I read. I’m sure with all the strange clients you get, you’ve had some Ank come in here.”

“No way. They wouldn’t be caught dead associating with regular people. They probably chew on rich stuff. Gold sprinkled on…more gold.”

“No, come on. They got to eat something, right?” I asked.

“What did they evolve from?”

“How the hell should I know? And what’s that have to do with anything?” I asked.

“You can often trace what a species consumes based on its evolutionary history. Like where it came from and what was available. They can’t exactly eat what doesn’t exist on their world,” he explained.

“How can you tell what something evolved from?” I asked.

“What do they look like?”

“Kind of pale. Almost see-through. Like jellyfish but, you know, not jelly,” I replied.

“There you go. They probably eat fish or krill or crustaceans. Or anything along those lines. Kind of funny to think the Ank used to be swimming around somewhere before they became bigshot bankers and money men.”

“Fish. Huh. Hadn’t thought of that,” I said.

Later, I came back home to see the little Prince or Princess was still in the makeshift crib I constructed. More of a cage, really. Lots of stuff piled up on the floor. I’d put down a bowl of water for him, but he hadn’t touched it.

“Okay, kid, this better work or you’re going to starve and then I’m going to get executed for starving you,” I said, dropping my sack of assorted fish products on the floor.



I was an Ontakian species. Bioengineered for combat. Whatever Rettosian scientist had designed and constructed me clearly didn’t make taking care of Ank babies as one of my proficiencies.

It was hard.

I found a few types of fish the child could eat, but I couldn’t just throw a flounder at him and go browse porn on my tele. I had to skin the fish. I had to partially cook it. I had to debone it. Mash it up. Add water. And then carefully feed it to him in an eyedropper while he struggled and fought every step of the way.

And the last part was problematic. Because while he might look a bit like a jellyfish, he wasn’t one. And he weighed about as much as my thumbnail. I wasn’t a dexterous person at the best of times. I couldn’t even aim a shotgun in the general direction of someone trying to kill me. So I was perpetually about to smush this poor kid with my oversized feet and knuckles.

Cleaning him was even more difficult. I didn’t trust myself to be able to wipe a baby without removing a few layers I hadn’t intended. So I had to kind of soak him and spray him in the sink. Any little spill or wee or dirt earned him a bath.

Thankfully, my butler Cliston had left our apartment well stocked. There were about a hundred utensils and contraptions for processing fish. A hundred more for feeding small creatures. And a whole lot of baby-care products. Which was strange, because no baby or infant or child had ever set foot in our apartment before.

I called him a him, but even after bathing him a million times, I couldn’t be sure. Ank were put together differently than anything I’d seen before. Though that wasn’t unusual.

If you thought your private parts were unsightly, imagine peeking at a strange species from another part of the galaxy. I heard even being a humble ears, nose, and throat doctor in the Colmarian Confederation was like living in a non-stop horror movie. Now think about being a urologist or gynecologist. You’d probably suffer post-traumatic stress in your first year of residency.

After two days of baby care, I was a wreck. I was exhausted, frustrated, and the kid didn’t seem especially happy either. He kept me up at all hours and if there was anything hazardous in my apartment—and there was—he did his best to find it and attempt to stuff it down his throat.

Which was really weird because he didn’t seem like he could move very well. And as soon as I relaxed, he’d go crawling off to find a knife or poisonous chemicals or something heavy to try and drop on itself. I never realized how unsafe my apartment was at ankle height.

Garm said it was three weeks before his people arrived. That event loomed large in my mind. Because there was some flotilla of badasses on the way with the single purpose of obliterating anyone messing with this kid. And right now, that was me.

I wasn’t sure I could hold out for three weeks. I couldn’t tell if I was starving the kid or gorging him or he was getting enough nutrients or anything. He didn’t cry much, and when he did, it was a kind of low-frequency moan—like a broken car horn or a blues singer who only knew one note. I felt it was only a matter of time before I tripped or stumbled or sneezed or had a muscle spasm and that little kid was gone.

And all these trials and tribulations didn’t even include the fact he was also being hunted by a super assassin. In regards to that, I could take some comfort in the knowledge that my building was filled with dangerous tenants.





CHAPTER 5


Close Encounter



Four bright dots appeared on the inside of Hank’s front door. The ambient light inside the apartment made them nearly impossible to see. Just as abruptly, they turned off. Then four more appeared in different locations. They vanished. Then four more. This went on for some moments until finally all the locks and latches and security measures on the tremendous door had been disabled.

The door swung outward, revealing the empty hallway.

The door closed silently, and a moment later, the golden assassin became visible.

It scanned the empty room, paying close attention to the makeshift baby barricade on the floor. It saw discarded and mangled diapers, child-friendly soap, and balled-up shirts that seemed to have been a terrible attempt at creating play toys.

Piles of dirty dishes were in the convenience. That wasn’t the full kitchen, which was deeper inside the apartment. Hank was not permitted by his butler to use the full kitchen, and he didn’t understand any of the items or the layout of the room in any case.

The assassin carefully rolled across the carpet, having activated the wheels on the bottom of its feet. It scanned the area and blinked out of visibility, moved slightly, and then reappeared. There was too much debris on the floor to roll for long, and it had to step around the piles as it searched.

When it passed the main living room, its complicated array of scanners recognized that electronic switches had activated nearby. This was not unusual. A modern metropolis like Belvaille was awash in electronics. Every door, floor, wall, and ceiling had many embedded devices. The assassin believed it had detected automation that was tied to climate control or plumbing or any one of a hundred other things.

However, the sensor that had been tripped was actually a security system. It did not call the police or military or an official emergency response of any sort.

The alarm broadcast to the other tenants in the building.



The apartment building the assassin was busy investigating was named Friendly Meadow Condominiums and was located in the Historical District of the city. There were no meadows remotely nearby. The builders had simply liked the name and it was a good marketing trick for those purchasing units sight unseen.

The building didn’t have a view of anything, really, other than the enormous Upper City that floated a mile above them. And everyone, everywhere, had that same view.

The Lower City was only about two millennium old, technically speaking. But at that point it had simply been a small camp. The modern city was half that age and there was nothing historical about it.

But complex urban areas needed subdivision names and this one was designated the Historical District, which was easier to remember than something abstract like B214. The area was situated roughly in the center of the 200-square-mile Lower City and thus could make a tenuous claim of being older than the surrounding areas.

The condominiums had faced difficulty keeping tenants almost from the start. It was a semi-luxury building, with many refinements and amenities, but not so many it could be considered prestigious or opulent. It was only thirteen stories, which was too big and crowded for the truly wealthy and too sparse to price it at middle-class prices and still make a profit.

The upper three stories were somewhat larger units, with most of the lower floors having regular-sized apartments. The building had a parking garage and basement, but no swimming pool or exercise gym or restaurants.

Management had originally tried to market it to diplomats and galactic officials, but it simply wasn’t fancy enough for that. Then they tried to rent it to corporate entities and their employees, but its central location made it difficult to commute to factories and business parks where such people had to work.

About a decade ago, Hank had moved in with his famous Dredel Led butler Cliston. They had made a deal where they chopped up and remodeled about a third of the first floor to make a single unit. This was about the size of the larger units on the upper floors.

The reason for the large, first-floor apartment was because of Hank. While he was mostly able to utilize the elevators, if he wore an oversized belt buckle or had a big dinner, it might be questionable. He could reach the first floor using the wide, reinforced staircase.

The first floor he lived on was really the second floor. The ground floor was occupied by the lobby, stairwells, elevators, entrances to parking and the basement, and building management offices, as well as various utility rooms.

Hank and Cliston were anchor tenants. Management hoped they would be able to pull in more leases leveraging the reputations of such notable figures. But then Hank died unspeakably some years ago and that went away.

With Cliston being the only remaining “named” client, they tried to market the building to restauranteurs, chefs, and butlers. And several cooks did take up residence, using their proximity to Cliston on their résumés to good effect. But there simply weren’t that many celebrity chefs around and the ones that were, wanted to be near their restaurants.

Hank miraculously returned several years ago and the building finally got its character. The condominiums began to fill up with outlaws.

For a brief time, management even advertised for such clients: Friendly Meadow Condominiums—For the Sophisticated Criminal. But it was suggested that criminals didn’t want to be known as criminals by non-criminals, so the ads were cut short. Still, the message was received.

The central location suited them. Such individuals didn’t necessarily want to live in the neighborhoods they were robbing. And their odd hours made traversing the city easier than those working steady day jobs.

These weren’t crime bosses or the upper echelons of the criminal world in the building. Those types wanted luxury suites and homes. It was the middleclass fixers and thugs and hooligans. And if you could make it to the middle tier of that profession and find the resources to take out a long-term lease on a condominium, then you were generally regarded as very competent and dangerous.

About a year ago, a unit in the building had been assaulted. A faction had taken it upon themselves to dispatch their hated rival. And they came in force to Friendly Meadow Condominiums to enact their dirty business.

As the fight went on, they found more and more nosy neighbors poking their heads out. And instead of gossiping or blustering or threatening to call the police, these neighbors took it upon themselves to shoot, hit, and otherwise harass the offending parties. Because of this, the assault ultimately failed.

Shortly after that, Hank proposed a kind of neighborhood watch for the building. He recognized the residents would be far more capable than the handful of security guards who hung out in the lobby giving directions and making sure no one littered or loitered.

The building tenants might be competitors during their working hours, but they lived here. None of them should have to worry about being attacked while sleeping, eating, taking a shower, taking a crap, playing with their children, or watching the tele.

This was their home. And while they were here, they would vigorously put down any trespassing against any one of them. The Friendly Meadow Condominiums were off limits to violent interlopers.

To that end, each apartment had security systems installed that could alert the other units of problems. It was simple and effective. A handful of street thugs being confronted by thirty of the best and best-armed criminals in the city was more than enough deterrent.

This was what Hank did. It was his job. Yes, he was strong, and durable, and heavy, but he could also talk to a bunch of maladjusted cutthroats and make them see the wisdom in working together. And because of that, their building had gained the reputation as a place you did not enter—or even approach—with hostile intentions.

Friendly Meadow Condominiums was one of the safest structures in the entire city, and it was almost entirely populated by violent criminals.



As the assassin snuck through Hank’s apartment, it was exceedingly cautious. It was aware of who Hank was. And it knew he was an incredibly dangerous adversary who should not be underestimated.

The assassin shifted into invisibility as often as it could and kept its movements erratic and its weapons ready. If it caught even a glimpse of the Ank child, it would terminate it immediately, and retreat just as quickly.

But Hank’s apartment was empty.

The assassin spent fifteen minutes carefully searching, but did not learn anything it didn’t already know. Hank clearly had the infant. And his Dredel Led butler was absent, obviously for some time now, given the level of disorganization within the apartment. While the assassin was not terribly concerned about Cliston from a combat perspective, he was just another variable to keep track of.

While they weren’t here at the moment, there were no signs Hank and the child had departed for good. There was no packing. No missing supplies. No indication they had done anything other than briefly—or even abruptly—stepped out.

This was a difficult situation for the assassin. If it left, there would be clear indications someone had broken in. And the already risky move of dealing with a mutant Ontakian would become much more perilous once he was forewarned.

It was possible that some hidden or low-tech means of alert had warned Hank ahead of time and he was hiding elsewhere in the building. Or he could be visiting neighbors, showing off the priceless baby.

Given that the assassin was already here, and it had ruined its element of surprise, the Messahn battlesuit felt it was best to search the entire building to be certain.

But even though the assassin knew some details about Hank, it knew very little of the Friendly Meadow Condominiums in which he resided.

The assassin left Hank’s apartment, carefully closing the door while invisible. It had to return to visibility and wait for the processors to recharge.

It was waiting because directly in front of it in the hallway was the wide, main staircase that led up from the ground floor. There were security guards down there as well as cameras and access to the street. It was prudent to pass that stairwell while cloaked.

Once it safely passed, there were four other apartments on the first floor. Hank’s was by far the largest. The assassin entered each apartment in the same manner. It killed two occupants while they were sleeping. It had not intended to murder random people, but the assassin did not want anyone to become aware of its activities prematurely.

However, there were no signs of the child or Hank, and no clues as to their whereabouts.

The assassin was somewhat concerned by the significant number of weapons that had been in each of the apartments. But it supposed this might be a bad neighborhood.

It took one of the side staircases to the second floor. Good assassins, especially ones that could turn invisible, liked to avoid elevators since they not only announced your location, but limited your movements to a cramped steel box.

The golden assassin exited the stairwell while invisible. But it still had to open the door, which was quite visible.

In the middle of the hallway, there were two aliens standing next to one another. A third was further down the hall.

“Punch me in the nuts,” a fat, scabrous man said to his neighbor, after noticing the stairway door open.

“With pleasure,” the gun-toting man replied. He then pounded the scabrous man in what appeared to be his jowly throat.

The scabrous alien doubled over in pain.

“Asshole,” he managed to exclaim, knowing his neighbor had hit him much harder than required—the two neighbors weren’t especially fond of one another, having many disagreements over the years regarding loud music and ethnic food smells.

A moment after recovering, the scabrous man belched out a stream of yellow mucous that instantly caught fire when exposed to the air. Much of the carpet and walls in front of him had been touched.

It wasn’t a hot flame, and only emitted a smoldering, light-blue fire. But it made anyone thinking of crossing the hallway have second thoughts and—while this was not the intention—it made anyone who was invisible be outlined in burning mucous.

“There! It’s some kind of damn cloaker.” The scabrous alien pointed, wiping fire snot off his face.

The man next to him saw it and began readying his weapon. But they were both interrupted by a shrill scream from behind.

A large woman began charging down the hallway in their direction. She was incredibly stocky, with arms and legs like support girders. She carried an enormous metal baton in each hand. They were more or less hi-tech clubs. As the woman moved, the screaming grew louder and more discordant. But she, herself, was not actually vocalizing. When her species got excited and expended energy through physical exertion, a portion of it became sound and vibration.

The scabrous alien and his neighbor with the gun got out of her way, knowing what was coming. They ducked into one of their apartments and covered their ears.

With the hallway open, the woman began vigorously spinning her batons, swinging her powerful arms to cover every corner of the hallway as she advanced. If something was there, visible or not, she was going to hit it.

Her added physical strain produced an absolute shriek nearing 110 decibels. In addition, the vibrations and soundwaves around her body were akin to a small force field. It was a peculiar trait from a species that evolved in an incredibly hostile environment.

The golden assassin turned visible in time to see the whirling cyclone of a woman approaching. The battlesuit was not affected by the noise or mild flames, but it recognized the bludgeoning power behind those batons the woman was wielding.

There were approximately 40,000 distinct, intelligent species within the Colmarian Confederation. And thousands more outside of it. It was fundamentally impossible to have a combat database on every living creature for the simple fact that it would take a billion lifetimes to visit every one in order to categorize them—assuming they cooperated.

The golden assassin did not know what species was rushing toward it, but it attempted to estimate what the woman’s weak points might be.

Streams of antiparticles shot out from the golden assassin’s hands. But the furious spinning of the woman prevented the beams from doing much damage. Minor scars were etched along her arms, the batons, and torso, as she twirled and stomped ahead.

The golden assassin activated the wheels on its feet and backed into the stairwell as it continued to fire its beams.

The spinning woman followed after the assassin and entered the confined stairwell, where she felt the advantage would be hers. As soon as she arrived, four metallic arms rudely pushed her to the side.

That had not been what she expected.

Like nearly every land-based creature on every planet in every solar system, the woman went into a panic as she found herself in freefall. Even though her fall would not be a great distance or even a dangerous one.

Her species’ adaptation had not been designed for urban environments such as this. It had been for wide-open spaces filled with micrometeorites and lava geysers.

As the woman fell, her alarm and flailing caused the vibrational shield around her to intensify. The sonic scream reached 200 decibels, which could permanently deafen nearly any living thing unfortunate enough to be in the echoing stairwell.

She fell onto the first flight of stairs and her shield caused her to essentially bounce off it. She then hit the wall and bounced off that. She continued to ricochet off the walls and floor, her self-protection increasing as her manic trajectory accelerated.

She reached the bottom of the stairs and her outward body was completely unharmed despite smacking into walls at 100 miles an hour. But her brain had been so sloshed around the inside of her skull by her rubber ball-like escapades that she suffered a severe concussion and slumped inert on the ground.

The two men who had ducked into cover reappeared in the hallway when the sonic shriek abruptly quit.

“What do you think?” the scabrous man asked the other, as they looked anxiously at the stairwell.

Before the other man could answer, the golden assassin appeared ten feet in front of them in the hallway, and four beams pierced the eyes and heart of the man with the gun.

The scabrous alien crouched down to retrieve the rifle and four beams cut the weapon into pieces as he grasped it. The defenseless man looked up to see what he might do. Maybe he could grapple with his assailant, or trip it, or attempt some other desperate action. But the battlesuit had vanished.

It appeared seconds later, safely behind and out of reach from the prone man.



The golden assassin was an actual assassin and not a commando. It did not like engaging without surprise, especially such a wide variety of miscreants that this building seemed to possess.

Standing in the hallway, it could hear the running feet of alerted homeowners above. An army was about to descend on the armor.

Therefore, as it paused at the side of the main stairwell leading up from the lobby, the assassin began the process of teleportation.

It was not a quick activity and required a lot of power. It was not something it did in combat situations. However, the Messahn battlesuit had experienced more than enough of this horrible apartment building and would search for the child elsewhere.

If the assassin had only moved four feet ahead, putting it in view of the staircase to the lobby, it would have spotted Hank standing there. He had the slumbering Ank baby in one arm and a bag of groceries in the other. His eyes were wide and his mouth ajar after witnessing the brief, yet terrible, exchange of firepower.





CHAPTER 6


Co-Workers



I urgently pounded on the front door of a quaint middleclass home. The metal doorframe began to buckle and bend from my abuse.

It was still dark out and I anxiously searched behind me to see if I was being followed—or if a golden assassin was about to materialize and zap me.

A video screen next to the door flickered on and I saw MTB’s face there.

“Hank. Thad Elon, I thought a train derailed and hit my house.”

“MTB, open up.”

“I can’t.”

“Dammit, this is important!”

“I’m saying I can’t. You wrecked my door. Go to the back. Don’t step on my flowers,” he said, the screen going dark.

I hurried around the side of the house and immediately plowed through a thick flower garden. There was a bank of ultraviolet lights attached to the wall shining on the plants, but it did not provide much visual illumination. And the flowers were situated right next to the house.

“Crap.”

I reached the back entrance and held off on knocking. The door opened a moment later, showing MTB standing in the light of his kitchen.

The guy looked haggard. Far worse than if I had simply woken him up. The burly, no-neck man hadn’t shaved in a long while. He hadn’t done anything that might be construed as personal hygiene in what smelled like weeks. He was wearing frumpy clothes that would cause embarrassment to a homeless person. And behind him, his house was an absolute wreck.

“Did you avoid the planters?” he asked me.

“Yeah. Didn’t see anything,” I lied, pushing my way inside.

He pointed at my pants which were covered in soil and incriminating pieces of flowers.

I gently placed a brown blanket on his kitchen table. I uncovered it, revealing the Ank baby.

“So this is my niece—or nephew. We need to crash here a few days,” I explained.

“No, that is the Lord High Provosh Mastere. And every crook, thug, cop, bounty hunter, and salty civilian in the city is searching for it. Not to mention a Messahn battlesuit of stupendous violence. How did you get it?” he asked.

“Garm,” I sighed. “She dumped him on me.”

“Well, dump your way out of here.”

“MTB, you’re a cop. The most corrupt cop I know.”

“That’s rich coming from you. You still ripping off old ladies?” he asked.

“Nah. I don’t mess with old people on Belvaille. If someone manages to become a senior citizen in this city, they’re deadly enough to leave alone.”

“Anyway, I’m not a cop anymore. I got fired.”

“What? You were on the force for like five centuries. How could they get rid of you?”

“I was corrupt.” He shrugged.

“Small price to pay for experience.”

MTB got closer to the baby to scrutinize it.

“I thought he’d be bigger,” he said. “So this is the lone survivor of the Belvaille Massacre?”

“I don’t know. I’m not familiar with that event,” I said.

“How many massacres you think this city has? Here’s a hint: when criminals die, they don’t refer to them as massacres. They call it ‘workforce rebalancing.’”

“MTB, we need your help.”

“Didn’t you hear the part where I said every single entity with a bad attitude is hunting for this kid? I want nothing to do with it.”

“Do you know what a quadrant is?” I asked.

“Isn’t that the holiday where everyone steals trash cans?”

“No, dummy. It’s a unit of space. Each one usually has thousands of…galaxies. But that kid, all by himself, is the Fifth Quadrant. That’s how important he is. He’s worth a thousand, quadrillion, million, billion credits,” I explained.

“None of that makes any sense.”

“Look. This child is the last royalty of Ank. His extended family tree got cut down on our soil. A military fleet is on the way and is going to slaughter everyone responsible.”

“Yeah. And as of right now that doesn’t involve me, and I don’t want it to,” he said.

“If this kid dies, I’m going to die. And before I go, I’m going to say you, MTB, kicked us out of your stupid house and into your flower garden—which is hideous, by the way. You’re moping around sad because you lost your job? Just wait until you’re responsible for the Colmarian Confederation going bankrupt.”

“Damn, Hank. Some friend you are.”

“I didn’t say we were friends. I said you were a lousy cop.”



It hadn’t even been two days and I was lying on MTB’s living room floor, exhausted. I had tried to cover myself with some trash as a makeshift blanket. I was too tired to reach ten feet and get the one from the couch.

MTB was in the kitchen attempting to process fish. The whole place smelled of it. So much fish. If I never saw another fish again, I would still be having nightmares about them a century from now.

“Do the tails go in? Because this doesn’t look right. If he throws up again, I think we’re going to have to try something else,” MTB called from the other room. “We should have written down the recipe.”

“It’s not a recipe. It’s a baby. He’s going to throw up,” I said.

“Yeah, but maybe it’s because we’re giving him stuff he can’t eat.”

The baby in question, the source of so much trauma, was across the room from me, emitting its nagging, low-frequency moan.

“Maybe that isn’t crying at all. Maybe it’s sonar. Or echo location,” MTB said.

“He can barely move. What’s he need to find?”

“He could be searching for food.”

“We’ve stopped him a half dozen times putting actual poison in his mouth. If he’s searching for food, he’s really bad at it,” I said. “Now be quiet, please. I’m trying to nap.”

“How can you sleep with that fog horn?”

“It’s white noise. But your blabbing isn’t,” I replied.

A knock came from the front door. I sat upright in alarm.

MTB rushed in wearing a gut-splattered apron.

“Could that be one of your friends?” I whispered to him.

“I’m a cop on Belvaille,” he whispered back. “I don’t have friends. Hide the baby.”

I stood up and got hold of the child. I took him to the first room I came to, which was the bathroom. I put him on the tile floor. There was absolutely nothing in here I could use to hide him. In my urgency, I grabbed a wash cloth and dropped it on the baby’s head. I realized it was ridiculous, but the knock repeated on the front door and I hurried back to the living room.

MTB was preparing himself. He produced twin handguns which he twirled and readied with expert proficiency. He made several non-verbal signals to me which I didn’t understand.

I looked around for my shotgun as MTB slowly crept to the door.

My weapon was on a tall shelf to keep it away from the baby. I got it and moved back in place.

I felt a nagging concern my gun wasn’t loaded. I couldn’t remember if I had fired it or if I had reloaded it or what. It would be really bad to go into a fight and realize I was carrying a useless door stop. I opened the cylinder on the shotgun, saw it was full, and slammed it shut.

This forceful action caused one of the barrels to inadvertently discharge.

“Ack!” MTB said, grabbing the back of his neck. He glared at me with hatred. “Dammit, Hank!”

“Sorry. Are you okay?”

MTB checked and rechecked his neck by pressing his hand against it. Once he saw he wasn’t mortally wounded, he replied.

“Yeah. Yeah, I think so. One of the pellets must have nicked me. Go check the door,” he whispered, still pressing a hand to his neck.

“You check it. You’re right there.”

“You just shot me, you ass,” he said, showing me proof.

“It’s barely noticeable. Just a graze.”

“You shouldn’t be grazing me at all. Get the door. You’re a giant mutant.”

“It’s your door,” I countered.

“Hi,” a female voice said from behind us. We both turned and spotted a metallic woman standing in the doorway to the kitchen. She was shaped much like a Colmarian female, but seemed entirely synthetic. “The back door was open. And the front door seems to have been mangled by a train.”

“Who the hell are you?” MTB asked.

“Garm sent me. She was concerned about…” The robotic woman trailed off, looking around at the house.

“You’re a robot,” I stated.

“And you’re exactly as smart as Garm said you were,” she replied.

“How do we know you’re from Garm?” MTB asked suspiciously.

“You don’t. I could be a professional assassin,” she said. We all stood waiting anxiously for her to continue or do something. “Who happens to be really poor at her job.”

“What’s your name?” he asked.

“Fate. That’s what you can call me. The last two digits of my ID are forty-eight. Which kind of sounds like Fate, and it’s a lot easier to say than a serial number. You’re clearly Hank and I suppose you’re MTB?”

“That’s right.”

“What does MTB stand for?” she asked.

“Bad life choices, apparently,” he grumbled.

I approached the robot. I had all sorts of questions. Robots were illegal in the Colmarian Confederation. They had been for millennia. Dredel Led were a robotic species, but she didn’t seem to be of that type of construction. She was more primitive.

“How do you know Garm?” I asked her.

“She and I go back a long way. I owed her a favor. This is repayment,” she explained.

“What favor?” MTB asked. He was not entirely easing up, but he was also busy rummaging for first aid to apply to his neck.

“If you must know, I was essentially a slave. Garm bought me. Set me free. Or as free as I can be in this empire,” she said.

“What were you doing as a slave?” MTB asked. He was thinking what I was thinking.

And the robotic woman seemed to understand what we were thinking.

“Sigh,” she literally said. “I suppose you could call me a hostess.”

“You’re a sexbot?” I asked her. She slapped me. “A dominatrix sexbot?”

“I’m here to help you. And it appears as if you really need it.”

“How’s a sexbot going to help?” I asked. “No offense, but it doesn’t even look like you have the right parts.”

It was true. The woman was compact and unclothed. She was painted red and white and had no hair. Her features and form were feminine, but if she had anything approaching sex organs, they were well hidden.

“Don’t be so literal. There are 40,000 distinct species in this empire. The chances of any two partners having matching physiologies are infinitesimal. It’s about using your imagination and creativity,” she explained.

MTB had placed an instant bandage on his neck and was feeling a bit better.

“I don’t want to refuse a sexbot, but that’s not really the help we need,” he said.

“Relax, I’m long since retired. But I do have a comprehensive database of biological species,” she said.

“Do you have Ank?” I asked.

“No. But I have information on a host of similar races. Where is she?” Fate asked.

“Bathroom. But we don’t know if it’s a he or she or what. It’s an alien. It’s kind of confusing,” I said.

“If you don’t know what gender it is, how are you taking care of it?” she asked.

“We just hose him down,” MTB said.

Fate shook her head and marched to the bathroom. She deftly recovered the baby and began cooing and bouncing and administering to it proficiently. The baby ceased its crying and replaced it with an odd noise.

“What’s he doing?” MTB asked.

“I think he’s giggling,” I said. “Is it sexist for me to say you have a feminine touch, Fate?”

“It would be if I wasn’t a robot. Do you have any toys for the child?” she asked.

“Yeah,” I said, tossing junk around the living room. “This is Socky.” I held up the sock. “Hi, Ank Baby. How are you doing?” I asked, using my Socky voice.

“He also likes to play with my pistols. I think because they’re shiny,” MTB said.

“You gave firearms to the infant you’re supposed to be protecting?” Fate asked.

“Not loaded,” he said. “And it’s still safer than if I gave them to Hank. He just shot me.”

“I said I was sorry.”

“One ‘sorry’ doesn’t erase you blasting me in the back of the head in my living room,” he replied.

“Alright. First thing is to see what sex we’re dealing with,” Fate said. She took the baby to the kitchen sink and cleared off some space. “It’s okay. Who’s a little aristocrat? You are!” Fate paused in her examination. “Okay. I get what you mean by confusing genders.”

“Right?” I asked. “And he was like that when I got him. So no one better blame me for breaking him.”

Fate fed and cleaned the baby and he was quietly sleeping in her arms. MTB and I were in awe of our new guest.

“Do you know the name of this child?” she asked.

“We don’t even know the gender. We just call him ‘Baby,’” MTB replied.

“That won’t do. She has to have a proper name. If nothing else, it will help personalize your relationship to her and make you more dedicated in your assistance,” she said.

“That’s very analytical,” I replied.

“We’ll call him Pale Demon,” MTB stated proudly and with haste, as if he had been waiting for the opportunity to name the kid for a long while.

“How about Macho Lady Killer,” I replied.

“What if it’s a girl?” MTB questioned. “Pale Demon works on any gender. And he’s pale.”

“Alright,” I said, thinking. “Fist Puncher the Bold.”

“Sal,” Fate offered, ignoring us.

“That’s kind of—” MTB began, looking at me.

“Dull,” I completed. “If we can pick any name, why not something with a bit more spice?”

“It’s just temporary. I’m sure she has a true name already—which we’re probably unable to pronounce. We simply have to keep her alive until her people get here,” she said.

“You’re not a Dredel Led, are you?” I asked.

“How do you know?”

“Because my butler is one. I’ve met a bunch of them. At least, in another universe,” I said.

“I’d heard something about your adventures. You were killed, right?”

“No. And yes. It’s a long story,” I said.

“I am not a Dredel Led,” she confirmed.

“Who would construct an artificial intelligence?” MTB asked. “They’ve been illegal forever in the Colmarian Confederation. No one would even know how.”

“We weren’t always illegal,” she said.

“Yeah, like 100,000 years ago,” I laughed.

She shrugged.

“Whoa,” MTB said.

“Garm sent me because she knew I also had something else that might be of use. I possess the software of the Messahn battlesuit that is targeting Sal.”

“You can do all that stuff? Teleport and turn invisible and bzow-bzow things?” I asked.

“No. Just because I have the software doesn’t mean I have any of the capabilities.”

“How did you get ahold of advanced combat software?” MTB asked.

“The battlesuit and I were constructed around the same time by the Colmarian Confederation. And, just like now, they were screw-ups back then. They installed all sorts of software into me that I can’t use,” she explained.

“Any of that other software able to help us?” I asked.

“I suppose if we encounter an ancient solar farm or piping station, I’ll prove to be uniquely qualified,” she said.

“What can you tell us about the battlesuit?” I asked. “I saw a video of it. It also attacked my apartment building.”

“Wait. It attacked Friendly Meadow Condominiums? Not even a SWAT team will go near that place,” MTB said.

“Yeah. Killed four of my neighbors and injured another. I was lucky,” I replied.

“Why am I just now hearing about this?” MTB complained.

“Because we were busy trying to make raw fish edible to a baby,” I said, smelling my fingers.

“I can’t say I understand all that much about the battlesuit. It’s software inside me. It’s not like an instruction manual I can read through. But I do know there is a person inside the armor,” Fate said.

“What kind of person?” I asked.

“One without arms and legs. There isn’t much left of them. They have to essentially dismember a Colmarian to fit them in the armor. All that’s left is kind of a brain and nervous system and some other organs,” she said.

“Why would they do that?” MTB asked.

“The battlesuit’s body and reflexes are much faster and more precise than any biological creature could achieve. The person inside gives it instructions and the software and hardware carry it out,” she explained.

“If you were made at the same time as the battlesuit, they clearly could make smart robots. Why chop up a person and shove it inside when they could just build the whole thing as a machine?” I asked.

“Even back then, they were skeptical about artificial intelligence. Having a sophisticated call girl was one thing. Having a sentient machine as the most advanced assassin in the galaxy was entirely another. They didn’t trust us,” she said.

“But there’s a Colmarian inside it now doing all sorts of mischief,” MTB said.

“Yeah. They guessed we were untrustworthy. But they had millions of years of proof that you all were dangerous. But they still figured that was better.”

“Do you have any ideas on how we can fight it?” I asked her.

“Not really. But we shouldn’t have to,” Fate said. “We have to keep Sal healthy and in cover. It’s up to Garm’s unlucky forces to deal with the battlesuit.”





CHAPTER 7


Adjunct Overwatch



Garm’s world hadn’t exactly been turned upside down, but it was tilting at such an angle that a slight breeze might cause it to go cartwheeling off to oblivion.

There had been political assassinations in the city before. Many. But they were rare, and necessitated a great deal of righteous vengeance on behalf of the overworked, underpaid, and entirely corrupt law enforcement that Garm ostensibly controlled.

In this instance, however, an entire embassy—its staff, its security, and even delivery persons and passersby—had been killed. The Belvaille Massacre, as it was being called.

The response was swift and forceful.

Not on her part. Garm still had no clear options on how to find the assassin or make the city safe from him. No, the swift response came from the upper class of Belvaille: They were all demanding protection.

Her offices, every hallway, floor, and in some cases ceilings—due to sticky-footed aliens—were absolutely filled with petitioners.

And they were all petitioning to immediately be relocated to the Upper City.

The Upper City was the reason anyone was here in the Lower City and why anyone was on this planet at all. Upper Belvaille had been constructed by the god, Thad Elon, and was such a technological marvel that it became the—unofficial—capital of every empire in the galaxy.

Not because Thad Elon was worshipped and there existed religious piety around his city—though he was, and there was—but because the Upper City cured any ailments, extended lifespans, and generally made you feel awesome just being in it.

It was the most valuable relic ever discovered from Thad Elon—who had gifted a great many relics to the galaxy.

But people clambered to be there now because the Upper City had its own defenses. It did not rely upon flat-footed police and their half-assed attempts at frontier justice. Not only did you not die of natural causes while you were in the Upper City, you couldn’t die of unnatural causes either.

However good that assassin was, he couldn’t dream of murdering anyone in the Upper City or of even reaching it. While the city floated only a mile above them, none could enter it without permission.

And that’s why none of these wealthy petitioners were getting up there no matter how much they begged. It was not a trivial matter, getting proper clearance. And that clearance wasn’t just a consequence of biological administrators that couldn’t understand even a fraction of the technology in the Upper City.

The city itself possessed its own will.

If anyone approached the Upper City without the necessary access, they would be instantly disintegrated. The city had even been known to disintegrate people who were speaking of going near it. Or at least, that’s what was thought to have happened. No one was really sure.

If someone poofs away in a cloud of smoke and you’re standing underneath an artifact created by a god, it’s easy to make assumptions. At this point, the Upper City had been blamed—and credited—for all sorts of things it had nothing to do with.

There were only about 10,000 permanent residents up there compared with 2.5 million in the Lower City. And Upper Belvaille was capable of easily supporting and housing 100 million. It wasn’t just snobbishness that kept out everyone—though that played a part—it was not easy adding new residents or visitors. How the first people ever got up there, Garm didn’t know.

Garm herself was allowed to venture into the Upper City, but only for a short while. No official came and tapped her on the shoulder when it was time to leave. No one even took actions to rescind her privileges. They didn’t have to. When she was no longer welcome, she could feel it. It was the city itself—and whatever malicious intelligence Thad Elon had imbued it with—that made Garm retreat from the flying city after the appropriate duration.

Upper Belvaille might as well be a separate planet in a separate solar system. Desperate folks clamoring to reach it would die of old age before they got access. But that didn’t stop them from trying. Nor did it stop them from getting in the way of Garm doing anything that was actually useful.

Garm was in her private office, pacing the floor. The door remained shut and locked. With it thus closed, her office was entirely soundproof, bulletproof, fireproof, and mostly bombproof. Those precautions were in place not only because she was paranoid and didn’t trust her staff and the residents of the city, but because they were all legitimately untrustworthy.

Normally, it didn’t matter that all her people were incompetent criminals. But after the Belvaille Massacre, Garm was personally facing a dark future.

The Ank were not happy about having their royalty slaughtered. They began making threats and entreaties to every official and semi-official and unofficial within the Colmarian Confederation.

And all those officials were attempting to contact Garm approximately every 230 milliseconds. Because that’s how big the Confederation was, and how many bureaucrats were direly concerned about her lack of progress.

Garm was a Quadrad. She came from the planet Quadrad and was a member of the not-so-secret society of Quadrad. She had trained all her life on how to be an “agent of change.” Which was a polite euphemism for assassin, saboteur, political manipulator, and all-around nefarious individual.

Garm learned to abhor the spotlight. Not only because it made her Quadrad activities nearly impossible to accomplish, but because it made everything impossible to accomplish. If you became important within the government, every move was scrutinized and questioned by the Colmarian apparatus. And that many voices offering advice and chastisement led to gridlock.

If Garm did nothing but take the calls of well-meaning officials across the galaxy, she would be occupied for the next thousand years doing nothing more than saying hello, goodbye, hanging up, and going to the next call.

So when she heard her office door being unlocked, Garm was overcome with a great sense of consternation. No one had the key or passcode, so either some high-ranking diplomat hired a skilled locksmith after being fed up with Garm’s stonewalling, or the very office furniture around her was rebelling.

The Belvaille Massacre had not only created huge numbers of requests for protection, it also generated hundreds of threats against her life.

Garm had survived, and thrived, for this long by always being prepared. She took out a pistol and knife, had an electro-stun bomb ready, and was mentally calculating her escape route as she positioned herself beside the door. It’s not that she anticipated an assault, but Garm was not a physically powerful individual. If someone shot her, she very well might die.

A small man in a military outfit entered. He was about half the size of Garm. His age was indeterminate, but his tiny potbelly and receding gray hair made him seem old.

“Hello?” Garm questioned, keeping her weapons ready.

“Ah. Adjunct Overwatch Garm?” he asked, on turning to see her. It took both of his arms and much of his weight to close the door behind him.

Before it shut, Garm caught a glimpse of one of her clerks. She knew the man moonlighted as a safecracker but she had never thought he was capable of breaking into her office. She would have to upgrade her security—and keep him in mind for other assignments.

“Yes,” Garm said.

“I am Secondary Vice Admiral Attaché of the Auxiliary Fourth Institution of Provisional Subarmaments,” he said, and then paused to catch his breath. “You may call me Admiral Tapper.”

Garm thought about his lengthy title a moment, but realized it was beyond her. She couldn’t be expected to know every division in the empire. The Colmarian Confederation was so large it regularly misplaced solar system clusters.

“Given our present state of security, I’ll need a Full Verification,” Garm replied. She wasn’t going to take someone’s word for it when assassins were openly roaming the city.

He handed her a data token. While most data, even the most confidential, could be handled tele-to-tele, tokens could encapsulate information and biometrics and didn’t transmit wirelessly. It was a multi-factor authentication. Using a combination of tele, the official record on the token, and a real-time biological sample he provided, she could confirm his identity.

“You want saliva or hair?” Tapper asked.

“I can do a skin swab. They’re less intrusive,” she replied.

“My species doesn’t perspire or secrete. Saliva or hair—unless you want to get more personal,” he said.

Garm took several hairs from different areas of his head and neck, looking to see they came from pores. She went to her desk and input the data.

“This will take about a day to get full clearance, but it preliminarily checks out. What can I do for you? Was it, Vice Admiral?” Garm asked.

“You could start by standing at attention and putting away your weapons,” he replied sternly.

“I-I’m not in the Navy,” she said.

“You’re not? Are you sure?”

“Yes.”

“I thought you were a Navy officer,” he said.

“I was pulled from Intelligence Services—though last I heard my old organizational unit is now responsible for the destruction of tainted food within the empire,” she said.

“Maintaining nutrient integrity is very important,” he replied seriously. “We’ve lost countless planets to food poisoning. So what umbrella or division do you now operate under?”

“While this is Colmarian space, because this is an Open Cultural Site, I report to a council based in the Upper City that is comprised of all the empires represented on the planet,” she explained.

The little admiral snorted.

“We should have never allowed other states to come here. Whoever cracks open the secrets to that hovering relic is going to have the galaxy by the balls,” he said.

Garm was surprised. Not because the idea was uncommon, but because it was stupid.

The Colmarian Confederation had been in many, many wars across its vast history. And in all those battles and conflicts and full-scale decimations, the Confederation had never once come out ahead against a real empire.

Any one of the civilizations who had diplomats in the Upper City could have either wrested control of the planet from the Colmarians or destroyed the relic from space. While Thad Elon’s city had many defenses, it was not thought to be able to fend off an entire armada.

Hell, there was an actual Boranjame sitting in the Upper City right now. How could the Confederation hope of keeping the likes of them out? The Boranjame were the exact opposite of the Colmarian empire: they had never once lost a single fight.

But Garm merely smiled. There was no point in arguing with an admiral about things that weren’t about to change.

“So what is your plan?” he asked her.

“Plan for what?”

“For dealing with the Ank and the assassins.”

“I have my best people working on it,” she replied sadly, knowing that was tantamount to saying her intention was to waste money and do nothing.

“Do you have any details of the intruders?”

“Yes. The killer was wearing an ancient Messahn battlesuit,” she said.

“No kidding? I recall studying them in my Combat History class when I was a cadet. Was it only one battlesuit?”

“We believe so. But it can turn invisible and teleport. If there was one or five or ten, we’d have no way of knowing unless they politely differentiated themselves. Such as having numbers painted on them.”

“I see. And all persons in the embassy were eliminated?”

“There was one survivor.”

“An eyewitness? Is that who described the assassin?” he asked.

“No. It was a youth. A baby.”

“One of the Ank royals?”

“Yes.”

“Where is it now?”

“In hiding.”

“Where?” he pressed, feeling she was being evasive.

“We can’t jeopardize its safety. I’m sorry, but that information is confidential,” she stated firmly.

Admiral Tapper sputtered and spurted. He was clearly unused to being refused.

“I’m Secondary Vice Admiral—”

“And I told you, I’m not in the Navy. If you’re a Double Blue Star Dancer or High Lord Ice Cream Maker, it doesn’t matter. There is no one on this planet—the surface of the planet—that I report to,” she interrupted.

“I’m taking over this operation. I need all the details.”

“Taking over what operation?” Garm asked, not feeling that there was any actual operation to take over.

“The orders are on this secure token.”

Garm was getting tired of tokens. Didn’t this guy know about teles? Garm accepted the offered token and threw it casually over her shoulder.

“I have my orders and nothing from anyone on anything can change my own classification. The Ank are sending a fleet here in a few weeks and they’ll be ‘taking over,’” she said.

“I wouldn’t be confident of that. We’ve suspended the Ank arrival.”

“What? Why?” she asked.

“Because as you said, this is Colmarian space. And the Ank do not possess much in the way of military capabilities. So any fleet or army or response will be comprised of mercenaries they hired. And your government is not pleased with the idea of a foreign army of dubious credentials having jurisdiction in our territory, on our planet, over our citizens, and our relic,” he said.

“I wish someone had told me this before.”

“I attempted to tell you, but you threw away the token,” he replied.

Garm went and retrieved it.

“I’m not clipping your wings, but these are delicate circumstances. Your people do not have the capacity to deal with this.”

“We have a robust law enforcement,” she replied, not believing the words herself.

“Garm, we know you. We know of your Quadrad past. We also know you’re a thief and crook. And everyone looks the other way because you keep this shithole of a city from self-destructing and valuable discoveries flowing from that relic. Not to mention you are savvy enough to grease all the right pockets while you take your share. But this is not a small-time con or sweet-talking some officials. An entire embassy was slaughtered inside the city with the most important Thad Elon artifact in the galaxy. Eyes, ears, and antennae are observing this situation closely.”

Garm scanned and examined the token. Of course, it was over 1,300 pages of text. But it had a helpful overview; a synopsis of the overview; a logline of the synopsis; an analysis of the logline; and a rebuttal of the analysis.

Basically, Garm was supposed to help the vice admiral and he do likewise in return.

“Sure,” Garm said.

“You read that whole document?”

“No, just the snarky analyst commentary. You got here quickly. Were you stationed nearby?”

“That’s top secret. I’m not here, officially. But this is high priority. I was selected because I may or may not have been stationed nearby. Also, my species hibernates once every eight months—which is three months away—and in the meantime, I don’t have to sleep. Other than forty-five minutes. I read that you don’t sleep at all. That must be very helpful,” he said.

“It can be. It can also be annoying. Because everyone assumes I’m forever available and ready to work. And with this many species and circadian rhythms, there’s always someone awake and asking for help,” she explained.

“I see. My forces have begun to bivouac on planet to assist. We will attempt to stay out of your way. How many are working directly underneath you in this city?”

“I’m not sure.”

“How can you be uncertain of the extent of your oversight? There’s one city on this entire planet.”

“But it’s enormous. Last I counted, there were over forty-eight distinct branches of Colmarian law enforcement here. None of which coordinate with one another. Theoretically, they all answer to me. But in practice, they rarely do. They answer to their standard divisions within the Confederation. It’s a mess. But you have no idea how difficult it is to organize a city with 1.5 million Colmarians mixed with 1 million aliens of every empire in the galaxy. That’s a lot of people,” she explained.

“I have 243 million soldiers who report to me,” he said, unimpressed by the size of her regime.

Garm was about to say something but stopped. 243 million! And this was just some mouthful of a secondary, vice admiral. Garm had operated within the empire for a long time, but she was still capable of being amazed at the size of the Confederation.

“Where are your soldiers setting up?” she asked.

“We commandeered some kind of abandoned water park situated near the eastern portion of the city,” he replied.

“Slip Splash Fun Land. Yeah, that was a mistake. We have plenty of water for the city but we don’t possess aqueducts or reservoirs. It’s just ground water. The nearest major river is a hundred miles away and the nearest ocean a thousand. The idea we could spare the water to make swimming pools and water slides and artificial tsunamis to entertain children was a miscalculation. The fee to enter the park cost three month’s wages for an average customer. The park went bankrupt in a month.”

“It’s a large property and suits our needs for the moment,” he said.

“Empty or not, you should have requested permission with my office.”

“We attempted to! We have been unable to contact you. It’s why I’m here in person.”

“Yeah. My tele is basically worthless right now. Since the…massacre, I’m getting so many people calling and writing and pinging that I can’t even scan through to see if any are important. You saw the gaggle of concerned citizens waiting inside this very building.”

“One of my units got rid of them,” he said absently. “Can’t have civilians interfering at a time like this.”

Garm was confused. She went to the door, opened it, and looked out at the sprawling office. Everyone was gone. At least, she didn’t recognize anyone who didn’t work here. The hallways were clear. And even her employees seemed to be actually working instead of what they usually did.

“How did you manage that?” Garm asked the admiral.

“It only took thirty-five soldiers less than an hour to disperse them.”

“Most of them were alien representatives. Or alien businesspeople. This building also operates as a diplomatic center. You can’t…you can’t threaten other empires here,” Garm said, concerned.

“Exactly. They were non-Colmarians. We have to worry about ourselves first. Like it or not, this is Confederation territory. The city might be an open cultural whatever nonsense, but it is we who maintain law and order. They should not be here—in this building or even this planet. I could see their presence was degrading the efforts of your personnel. If they choose to blame anyone, they can blame me. And we shall see if my superiors in the Navy shed a tear at their mishandling,” he replied.

Garm was stunned. Some of the most influential citizens in the city had just been scared off by armed soldiers. That did not make the prospects of her surviving this disaster any better.

“Come, Adjunct Overwatch. I’d like you to view where my forces are setting up our base. You may provide your belated approval and insights,” he said.

Garm followed Admiral Tapper out of the office. She didn’t have much choice. A foreign—to her—army had landed without her knowledge or consent and was building a headquarters. She had better inspect it.



Arriving at Slip Splash Fun Land, Garm was immediately struck by how many soldiers were here.

Belvaille had a lot of soldiers from a lot of empires. But they were mostly limited to a handful here and there, equipped with small arms weaponry.

But Garm saw thousands of soldiers at the water park. And they were not setting up the base, as the admiral had stated; it looked as if it was already completed. There were almost no signs that this area had been a failed amusement park at all.

As for signs, they even had their own installed, indicating the direction to the canteen, telecommunications, and motor pool number thirteen. Everyone moved with precision and there were not only indications of heavy weapons, but light armored vehicles.

“What do you need anti-aircraft defenses for?” Garm asked, on seeing the complicated scanning systems used for air targeting.

“My forces are just following existing disembarking procedures. We don’t have specific operational plans for responding to an embassy massacre and co-opting a theme park. We have to use the closest, approximate plans, and the soldiers follow the guidelines on which they’ve been trained. It would take far more effort to pick and choose everything appropriate,” the vice admiral said.

“It still seems dangerous to be bringing anti-air capabilities to Belvaille. The Upper City dislikes such things.”

“You are quite right. While we possess the radar arrays, we do not have the actual missile systems. That kind of hardware cannot be transported into this entire region without significant clearance. And there are more than Colmarian eyes watching the Portals. I’m sure you’re aware that people tend to get nervous at the thought of anti-flying weapons being deployed near a flying Thad Elon relic. Rest assured, Adjunct Overwatch, we have nothing down here capable of damaging the relic,” he said.

Garm was alarmed by all this equipment. Not only because it was here, surrounding her, but because it meant there were significant military vessels in orbit that had to bring them.

She did not follow the space traffic around Belvaille very closely. It was quite busy out there. Not only because vast amounts of people and goods were coming and going, but because they were travelling from such different locations.

The Rettosian empire wasn’t going to give a lift to the Qwintine empire. So if even one person was visiting from a foreign state, it took an entire spaceship to bring them. The inefficient movement patterns of aliens caused a constant flow of ships around the planet.

As they wound their way through the base, Garm became more and more certain that their presence was not a coincidence. She knew the Colmarian Confederation and she knew the Navy. There was no way a detachment this large could have gotten here and established themselves this quickly without forewarning and planning.

They had been ready and waiting for this.

“You seem to have perfectly spread yourself over every inch of this property in only a handful of days. Where did you say you were stationed again?” Garm asked.

“Our location and previous assignment was, and remains, top secret. This tract is perfectly suited to our needs. I’m having my men draft a report that water parks should henceforth be given precedence in selecting urban military locations. The combination of storefronts, booths, robust utilities, and sunken, waterproof containment areas is excellent for military purposes.”

As the pair continued past marching soldiers and their deadly equipment, Garm’s uneasiness only grew.

“You can’t have such a huge military company in an Open Cultural Site. This looks like an occupying force. An invasion,” she said.

“We can’t invade our own territory.”

“But we have an intergalactic summit in a few months.”

“You need to postpone that.”

“It’s not mine to postpone. The main portion is going to take place in the Upper City. But even so, millions of aliens are shifting themselves across the galaxy to make ready. This has been in the works for over a year. It would be politically disastrous if we tried to cancel it,” she explained.

Tapper stopped and faced her. Garm had a persistent urge to crouch down to him, because he so much resembled a child. A surly child dressed up in a convincing military costume.

“My job here is to protect our asset. And by asset, I am referring to the relic,” he stated.

“Surely your job is to also protect Colmarian interests and citizens.”

“I’m a secondary vice admiral of subarmaments, not of hospitals, handouts, and well-wishing. That said, if you give me a list of vital city infrastructure, we can provide them augmented security. We won’t even disrupt service. We’ll simply be an extra layer of protection.”

“If we cancel the summit, not only would our empire be responsible for the Belvaille Massacre, but we would be indicating we can’t keep this planet safe. If you want to protect the asset, you don’t do it by making the empires worried that we can’t ensure access to it. That might lead them to believe the Confederation isn’t the proper custodian for the relic.”

“Come to my office. Let’s not discuss sensitive information in the middle of the street,” he said.

He was right. They were in the middle of the street. A street that had been resurfaced and widened, or even built from scratch, and which was now fielding military vehicles.

His office was not a repurposed fast food stand or kissing booth or any other amusement park infrastructure. It was a prefabricated job, filled with eye-popping technology. If Garm got her “best” people to emulate this office, it would take them months—if they succeeded at all.

The large room was already filled with personal effects and items. If Garm had not known otherwise, she would have guessed this structure had been sitting here, in use, for years.

She casually scanned the contents of the area to build a psychological profile on Admiral Tapper. She already knew him to be confident and blustery, but that was part of the job. When you were leading 243 million people, you couldn’t be circumspect or polite—there wasn’t time. There were plenty of military officers who were thoughtful, reserved, and empathetic, but they weren’t ordering around a quarter billion soldiers.

Judging by the room, the admiral was patriotic. No, more than that. He was bordering xenophobic. Everything was military. Even the personal touches and fun items were jabs, subtle or not, at anything non-Colmarian.

For example, his family videos were of military academies and all-Colmarian social clubs. He had news reels of the few battle skirmishes that the Confederation actually came out ahead after confronting another empire.

“Have a seat,” he commanded.

Garm believed she had a decent understanding of this man. In keeping with that, she sat down immediately in the rigid chair provided. This was a man who expected people to follow his orders. It was such a normal part of his life that it was like breathing or blinking. If she continued to push back and argue, it was so contrary to his experiences that he would relentlessly attack. She had to be subtle.

“I will be straight with you, Adjunct Overwatch. There are many in the empire who are not comfortable about sharing this space. The relic—Upper City, Upper Belvaille, or whatever you call it—may be the most valuable object in the galaxy,” he said.

“We Colmarians have apparently discovered a great many things by reverse engineering parts of it,” Garm agreed dutifully.

“But everyone is up there. Every empire or half-empire or pretend state has scientists trying to figure that thing out. Not only that, but major powers that we are actively at war with have a place. And while we share access to the relic, they don’t share their experiments and findings with us.”

“You mean like coordinate analysis of the relic? It’s vast. The city itself doesn’t allow many people up there—at least not for long. I doubt the scientific teams even see one another they’re so spread out,” Garm explained.

“But they come back down. Then they take whatever they learned and go home and build better weapons to kill our people and seize our territory. So our nation is getting the least out of actually possessing the relic. Because we spend a fortune protecting it and making travel to it possible from anywhere across the damn galaxy,” Tapper said.

“Exactly which parts of the empire are worried about this? I get nothing but support from my contacts.”

“You know the old joke: If you ask the Confederation a yes-or-no question, you will get a hundred trillion distinct replies—none of which are yes or no. But I’m sure you can appreciate what’s going on.”

“I don’t hear much, honestly. That is, under normal circumstances. The government isn’t too happy about the Ank embassy,” Garm said.

“Don’t worry about that. That’s nothing. But it’s a symptom of the problem. You can’t have this many empires, that despise one another, in co-existence. It’s foolish.”

“There are many relics around the galaxy and it’s always done the same way,” she said. “They’re all Open Cultural Sites.”

“Most of those have been bled dry. Upper Belvaille will be giving up its mysteries for the next billion years even if we did nothing but devote all our resources to studying it. And we can’t fall behind on technology this important. And, Adjunct Overwatch, we are falling behind. We both know that our scientists aren’t as good as those of other empires.”

“Yeah, we’re a wacky, screwed-up nation. Makes you wonder if you chose the right team to become a vice admiral of,” Garm teased.

The statement was a casual probe. She was trying to gauge his response and find out what he really thought. Tapper’s eyes popped and he replied forcefully.

“I love this empire! You’re a Colmarian. I’m a Colmarian. As of a month ago, there were 43,289 different species that were Colmarians. Yes, it’s chaotic. Half of our planets are mildly lethal to the other half of our population. We have so many cultures and customs that every sneeze or nod could be construed as a grave insult. But we take everyone and everything. If you want to be a Colmarian, and are capable of stringing together a few coherent thoughts and communicating them, we’ll take you,” he stated passionately.

“So you’re trying to say we’re a force for good?” Garm asked skeptically.

“No. No. For us to be a force for good, there would have to be something for us—out there—to be able to help. To be good toward. But we’re all here. Any species that isn’t a Colmarian is either indifferent to us or actively wants to destroy us,” he replied.

“That’s, forgive me, a bit dramatic, right? No one is going to destroy us. Why would they?”

“Adjunct Overwatch, we are at war with almost every species up there,” he said, pointing at the ceiling. “It might not be called a war, but to the Colmarians dying, it doesn’t matter what anyone labels it.”

“We aren’t at war with the Ank.”

“But we are! It’s not with battlecruisers and bombs. It’s an economic war. We are at war everywhere. And we’re losing. Culturally. Militarily. Technologically. And yes, financially.”

“You make it sound like you’re happy the embassy was massacred,” Garm said.

Tapper was taken aback. He gathered his thoughts a moment, which was unusual. High-ranking officers like him didn’t often stop to ponder in mid-conversation. Everything was binary. Even if they chose wrong, they chose quickly. And next time they’d choose right. It was how he was able to command an organization as large as his.

“If we liquidated every holding, mineral, and planet we owned, we couldn’t pay back the Ank. We’re practically the vassal state of that one, solitary planet, that sits in the middle of our empire,” he said.

“I know. But what can they do? Foreclose on us? Rename us the Ank Confederation? Then they’d have all our mess. They don’t want us. Will they hurt us after the assault on their embassy? I’m sure. Will I personally face difficulties? Probably. But it will all settle down after a while because it always does. Can you imagine the havoc of 43,000 species cut loose and working independently in the galaxy? We are simply too big to fail,” she said.

“You’re an optimist.”

Garm shrugged. It wasn’t a label she was used to receiving. She relentlessly prepared for the worst and hoped for…meh.

“For us to proceed here, I need a list of important infrastructure,” he began. “I need a layout, as best you can manage, of all governmental and quasi-governmental functions.”

“I’ll get my folks on it.”

“I need everything you have on the assassin. And I need to put the Ank survivor under our protection.”

“I’m sorry, but the survivor is not going to any official units. I know there is a contract out on that infant. And the pay is enough to weaken and crumble even the most resolute of defenses,” Garm replied.

“You’re saying you’ve placed it with civilians?”

“I’m not confirming or denying. However, I believe it’s as safe as can be in this city at this time.”

“You are taking a tremendous risk. You are responsible should they prove unsuccessful,” he warned.

“I’m aware of that. I’m already responsible. If I give you the child, I’ll still be responsible.”

“We have bunkers. We have scanners you wouldn’t believe. We can make child-size body armor. Do you honestly believe some civilians can safeguard an asset better than we can?” he asked.

“Yes. I’ve chosen the best from a frightfully bad set of choices—made even worse now that you’ve told me the Ank fleet might be postponed. But I know this city, its environment, and I’m aware of the current circumstances,” she stated.

“Very well,” he sighed. He activated an internal communicator on his desk. That’s how well set up he was. He already had intercoms available. “Send Specialists Jib-Tane and Hormosht to my office.”

They waited quietly a moment or two.

“You have any family?” he asked her.

“No children, if that’s what you mean. None that I’m aware of.” She laughed. But the vice admiral didn’t get the joke.

“I’ve got nine great-grandchildren.”

“That’s a lot of presents to keep track of,” she replied.

“No. No gifts. No coddling. If they’re going to live in the Confederation, they have to realize nothing will be given to them. Especially if the Ank call in our debts,” he said.

The two specialists didn’t knock, they simply entered the office. When they came in, Garm got out of her chair. Not only because she didn’t like people standing behind her while she was seated, but to size up the newcomers.

They were big guys. Rough. They were in Navy uniforms, but she didn’t know their designation. Not uncommon, given how large the military was. Garm suspected they were some kind of special forces.

But they didn’t salute. They didn’t stand at attention. They didn’t look like they were in front of a vice admiral who was directly responsible for a quarter billion soldiers.

“Men,” Admiral Tapper said. “Can you explain to Adjunct Overwatch Garm here if there have been any developments in your hunt for the assassin?”

Garm glanced at the admiral. He had spoken those words carefully and with unusual emphasis. Like he was trying to cover something up.

The specialists in question looked at her. They did not seem impressed. She was tiny compared to both of them.

“Yeah. We have some solid leads on the battlesuit,” one of them said. “We believe it has to recharge or refuel periodically.”

“As I recall from my history class, that was one of the shortcomings of the weapon: massive power consumption,” Tapper said.

Everyone stood quietly.

“That’s it?” Garm asked. “It uses power? We know that. It even leaks power—assuming they haven’t fixed that flaw—but that information doesn’t help us.”

“We think we know where it was refueling in the city,” the specialist said.

“Why don’t you take us both out there? Are you able to do some field work, Adjunct Overwatch?” Tapper asked.

“What?” Garm replied, stunned. “You want me, two goons, and a vice admiral to go sightseeing where there’s an active Messahn battlesuit?”

“As I understand it, the assassin learned of our surveillance and has moved on. But it might be valuable to search the location. My people do not know this city like you do,” Tapper said.

Garm was quiet a moment, evaluating these men.

“Yeah, of course. If you think it will help,” she said.

“Excellent. It will also give us a moment to talk more about your recommendations.”



Garm was in the back of the car with one of the specialists while the other drove. Tapper was of course up front. They were not in a military vehicle, despite there being armored choices available in the water park. The vice admiral stated he didn’t want to draw any more attention than necessary. They were just going to look around a bit and leave.

The reason one of the specialists was driving was because people still had to drive cars. And fly spaceships. And manually turn valves and push buttons in the Confederation. While computer systems were pervasive and permitted, the level of pure automation was very low in Colmarian space. It was due to the Dredel Led empire. They were a hostile race of sentient robots and computers and they could not only co-opt any advanced technical systems, they might be inclined to “free” them from biological servitude.

Along the way, Tapper prodded Garm about this and that aspect of the city and its administration. But it was more or less small talk—or as small as an admiral could manage. The specialists said nothing. They didn’t do much of anything. The one next to her adjusted his uniform now and then.

“Sorry for repeating myself, but I just want to try and persuade you to allow us custody of the survivor. A lot is hinging on our ability to keep that youth alive,” Tapper said.

“I know. And more than a small amount of blame will land squarely on me if we don’t. But no matter how hard I try, I can’t imagine any set of static defenses that would keep that child safe,” Garm replied.

“But the child is still in the city? It’s a big planet—so I’ve been told. You might even try and smuggle it out on a shuttle,” Tapper hinted.

Garm had been about 90% sure of what was going on back in the office, but now she was positive: They were driving her someplace quiet so they could murder her.

Tapper was attempting to give her a chance to save herself or extract any clues. But he had been a senior officer for too long and he wasn’t good at being coy. That was obvious when he had spoken his code words to the specialists to get this farce moving in the first place.

His “specialists” were even more of a giveaway. No military person of any kind was going to be as relaxed and informal as these guys were around a vice admiral—not even if they were blood relatives. And this idiot next to her was fidgeting in his uniform like he’d never worn one before. Sure, soldiers got requisitioned clothes that didn’t fit. But professional soldiers weren’t going to tug and pull like antsy teenagers while they were on a dangerous mission.

That last point was most obvious. Tapper probably hadn’t “worked the field” in centuries. It was inconceivable that he would personally go out to a hazardous location when he had 243 million people who were not only better at it, but it was their responsibility and not his.

One or two of these could be coincidence, but not all of them together.

“This is of paramount importance, Adjunct Overwatch,” Tapper added. “I’m not sure you comprehend the scope of what we’re dealing with here. Not to be insulting, but do you think your background in Quadrad training—pole vaulting and disguises—means you have insights that entire branches of your government do not?”

“I get it. It’s just—ugh!” Garm said.

“What?” Tapper asked.

“They can make these seats and safety harnesses fit a thousand species, but they still can’t handle boobs. Hold on, before I cut off my circulation,” she said.

The men in the car couldn’t help smiling as Garm tried to adjust the harness.

It was not an easy thing to jump out of a moving car. Car manufacturers hated that kind of activity. Made them look bad.

And because of the necessity of having a multitude of species attempt to operate the same motor vehicles, there were a whole lot of bad drivers in the galaxy. So safety precautions had to be robust.

When Garm had detached all her seat harness protections, she still had to open the door. Under normal circumstances, this car model didn’t allow that while it was moving. This was to prevent errant wings, tentacles, or horns belonging to weird species from inadvertently causing them to fall out of the vehicle.

But Garm knew the override keys on the door. Most equipment had such fails of fail-safes. They just had to be difficult enough that they couldn’t be triggered by accident.

The car was moving at about 45 miles an hour. They were in an out-of-the-way location, but still, there was traffic around.

She did it with such a quick burst of speed that the specialist next to her had to do a double-take. An alarm sounded in the car, but not so shrill it caused immediate response. Garm had used the proper override, so the vehicle assumed someone had meant to open the door.

“Holy crap! She jumped out,” the specialist in the back said.

“What?” Tapper asked.

It had been so fast and seamless that he had barely heard any disturbance. The door was already closed.

“Stop the car! Get her,” Tapper ordered.

The car came to a halt. Both specialists got their weapons ready before exiting the vehicle. With the car stopped and powered down, their safety harnesses automatically retracted.

The men coordinated their exit from the car non-verbally. One, Two, Three. Open and out.

Pop. Pop.

Garm shot both specialists in the head. She had been standing on the roof of the car, waiting for them.

If they had looked closer, they would have seen part of her harness had been outside of the door. She had used the safety straps as a kind of bungy line. Her feet had hit the ground, the harness tightened, and she used the momentum to flip onto the roof.

Landing quietly was difficult. And then remaining up there when they stopped the car was even more challenging. But the tight harness, and her training, had made it possible.

Garm flipped down and hopped into the back seat of the car.

She pointed her pistol at the admiral.

“Pole vaulting and disguises,” she said. “Who set this up? What are you trying to accomplish?”

Admiral Tapper began reaching for the sidearm that was stowed in the front of the car.

“Don’t,” Garm warned him.

But he continued reaching for it and Garm had no choice but to kill him. She could not risk merely injuring him any more than she could have with the specialists. She did not have the luxury of discovering they had grenades, other weapons, were wearing body armor, or could call for help.

Cars around her didn’t even slow down. If anything, they sped up. Belvaille was a violent city and rubbernecking was a luxury that could be ill afforded.

Garm allowed herself a moment to recover from the adrenaline.

There were a few outcomes from this fiasco. On the bad side, she was now a criminal who had just murdered a terribly important military official. The good side was, he had been planning on murdering her, so she had one less adversary in her life.

Not only that, but Tapper had been smart enough to understand that killing an Adjunct Overwatch for no reason was generally frowned upon. So he had enlisted some off-the-books hitmen in an untraceable vehicle. He also likely didn’t advertise any details of this encounter. Otherwise, when her body was discovered or she went missing, he would be the last known contact.

So even though she had just killed three people, unless she personally hung around the corpses there would be no way to trace her back to their deaths. Because they had taken steps to ensure they couldn’t be traced back to her death.

With that in mind, she left the scene immediately and got a safe distance away. She sent a message back to her office that she had gotten food poisoning and she would either be going to her house, a friend’s house so she could be looked after, or a clinic.



There could still be people after Garm.

Was Admiral Tapper working alone? The idea that a vice admiral of 243 million soldiers had gone rogue all by himself was far-fetched. He probably used the bathroom with a support battalion by his side.

Garm didn’t know why he had done this and how much he had done. Was the Messahn battlesuit under his orders? Was Tapper simply trying to get the Ank survivor and sell it so he could retire wealthy instead of on a pension? And most importantly, how many more Colmarian military officers were in on this scheme?

Tapper could have been merely following orders from a Super Duper Admiral who was in charge of 243 billion soldiers.

Garm had already been unable to trust any of her local team with this. That’s why she used Hank. But now someone had tried to kill her. And not just any hooligan, but a well-connected officer who still possessed a standing army in her city.

She came to a few quick conclusions.

The assassin couldn’t be working directly for Tapper. Taking her out personally was an incredibly risky move. Even if Tapper hadn’t underestimated her, all sorts of things could go wrong—as evidenced by the fact he was now dead and she wasn’t. But other than that, his plans might have been revealed or thwarted by mere witnesses.

Also, if he had access to the battlesuit, he could have gotten it to kill Garm and there was very little she could do about it. The Messahn battlesuit was maybe the best assassin in the galaxy.

Whatever co-conspirators Tapper had, they either weren’t close by, or weren’t skilled interrogators and assassins. The specialists hadn’t seemed very special.

But on the other hand, there was no way the vice admiral was working alone. You couldn’t move around a fleet of ships and detachment of soldiers without authorization. Even if it took years for them to find the error, Tapper would have ultimately answered to his superiors.

And this was Belvaille. There were countless diplomats here who would raise a fuss over an occupying military presence. So someone above Tapper had given this clearance. Either explicitly or implicitly or vaguely enough that he could point at it and not get court-martialed.

Which meant, there were likely other Tappers out there.

Garm sent a convoluted tele message. It bounced to one tele, to another, to another, to a bank of computers, to a network, to another tele, to another, and on and on.

Each tele she called, forwarded the message. Each device was only able to communicate to another tele a few generations older than itself. And Garm had to send a message back 100,000 years.

Finally, a tele dialed in to a lone machine that was equipped with a radio antenna. Not even the most sophisticated counterintelligence experts would be able to trace it. Not because it was that sophisticated, but because it was so archaic.

Garm’s note was sent to the robot Fate. She had her own transceiver, but it was ancient technology. It could only handle small amounts of text transmitted on an obscure radio wave frequency.

Garm’s dispatch said: “You need to move. Colmarian military hunting you. Trust no one. Ank fleet isn’t coming. I killed an admiral and I’m on the run. Take kid and hide!”





CHAPTER 8


Safe House?



The four of us were walking in an alley. All of us were ragged and tired. We had fled MTB’s, taking only as many supplies as we could grab while in a state of panic.

“How about the guy who can pick up an actual automobile carry the baby for a while?” MTB grumbled.

“We worked out our roles. You cook and carry Sal. I clean her, feed her, and attempt to make clothes. And Hank moves heavy things and stands in front of bullets or antiparticle beams,” Fate explained.

“It seems like he has the easy part.”

“You and I both saw him break three walls, two toilets, a sink, a shower, and a door within a few days. Hank doesn’t touch Sal unless it’s an emergency,” she said. Then she pointed a metal finger at me. “And he has to count to five beforehand to cool down.”

“I think you’re wildly overestimating his level of education. Why are you wearing that parka? It doesn’t fit and anyone can see it’s you from three blocks away,” MTB said to me.

All of us had on long rain parkas. They were police issue of dark color. MTB had a dozen of them, of various sizes, in his closet.

“I thought we were doing a gang thing. Wearing all the same clothes,” I said.

“Fate is trying to hide she’s an illegal robot. I’m trying to hide an illegal baby. Sal is trying to hide he’s illegal,” he said, showing off Sal’s tiny parka that Fate had crafted. “You’re just covering the back of your head and one shoulder.”

“But does it look cool?” I asked.

MTB stared at me for long moments. I could tell he was tired, hungry, and annoyed. My surprise visit had made him a homeless babysitter wanted by both assassins and the military.

“It kind of looks cool. Like one of those animal gladiators on Studious Slaughter. You seen that show?” he asked.

“No. What’s it about?”

“They fight animals. Colmarians versus nature. I don’t know how much is scripted, but each gladiator has a backstory. Like one guy had his entire family eaten by wild animals. And now he’s looking for revenge,” he said.

“Whoa.”

“Yeah. Last season, there was one gal who had her singing career cut short because she had been bit in a throat by a wild zopoloid. She had a real dusky voice. Like she was exhaling through her nose while she talked.”

“What’s that have to do with gladiators?” I asked.

“She was taking out her frustrations of her lost dream by arena fights with zopolades—which are like, bigger zopoloids. You know, I think that one was kind of scripted. Because they had some cut-scene showing her singing in the past, and it was obvious it wasn’t her voice. She was just lip-synching. Not all of them are good actors. But they’re good gladiators,” he said.

“I’ll have to check it out.”

“Guys. We’ve been walking around for six hours,” Fate began. “While I don’t get physically tired, I’m exhausted from listening to your inane conversations. And Sal needs to eat and sleep.”

She was right. Sal was cranky, being constantly jostled awake and the ever-present sounds of the city.

“We can try a hotel. But they got biometric scans everywhere. If the Navy is searching for us, they can co-opt those scans whenever they want,” MTB said.

“I might know someone who can give us a place to hide. Delovoa,” I said.

“That psychotic scientist?” Fate asked.

“I’m not really sure it’s fair to refer to him as a scientist,” MTB replied.

“Sal is worth a fortune. And every living soul in this city, solar system, and region is searching for her. Do you trust Delovoa not to turn us in?” Fate asked me.

“Yeah, I’m not really comfortable with this,” MTB echoed.

“Nah. Delovoa doesn’t care about money. He doesn’t really care about anything,” I said.



We stood in front of Delovoa who was clearly irritated at our presence.

Delovoa was a gaunt alien man wearing a white, ankle-length lab coat that was splattered with blood and goo. His head was shaped like an old-school incandescent lightbulb. The top of his skull had been removed and was now covered with a glass dome that showed off his brain. His face had three eyes spaced irregularly—each one blinked and looked independently. He had a generally effeminate nature and spoke with a mild lisp.

“I do not appreciate being disturbed when I’m on the brink of the most important scientific breakthrough of the last thousand years,” he said.

We all stood there blankly. Long moments passed in silence.

“Since you asked,” Delovoa continued, “imagine an apex predator: a million years of evolution spent perfecting biology. Instincts, muscles, reflexes, senses, all optimized for the sole purpose of hunting. Now imagine that same apex predator outfitted with the most lethal weaponry in existence. Behold! I call it, ‘Kill Shark Kill Kill.’”

Delovoa held up a small shark, about two feet in length. It was covered in all kinds of guns, armor, little missiles, and metal teeth. It indeed looked scary.

“This is just a prototype,” he explained. “The real version will be 100 times bigger and a 1,000 times killier.”

The room we were standing in was dominated by a giant aquarium. He had given this speech from atop a metal ladder that led to the top of the fish tank.

“Now watch!” He said.

He lowered the mildly thrashing shark into the water and released it. It promptly sank to the bottom of the aquarium, weighted down by all the hardware. It joined about thirty other dead sharks that were similarly equipped.

Delovoa was quiet for a while.

“So what is it you want?” he asked us.

Fate took the baby from MTB.

“This is Sal. It is the last remnant of the Ank family who had—” she began.

“Blah blah blah!” Delovoa interrupted.

“I didn’t ask for your life story. I asked what you wanted. I’m tremendously busy. Kill Shark Kill Kill is an invention that needs to be invented.”

“Delovoa, we’re tired, man,” I said.

“So? What do you want?”

“We need a place to hide. To lay low for a while,” MTB said. “Some place that people won’t know to look.”

“You can’t stay here. I’m building better sharks. And it’s hardly private. I have a business and I’m open to the public.”

“He sells ways to commit suicide and ways to kill other people,” MTB explained to Fate.

“That’s a gross misrepresentation of my capabilities!” Delovoa said, offended. “I am offended. I also buy and sell body parts. If you bought some of my eyes, you would have known this.”

Delovoa then fished around in his pockets and produced a slimy round organ as proof.

“You need some of these. Actually, this isn’t an eye. What is this, a kidney?” Delovoa focused his three eyeballs on the bloody object. He sniffed it, shrugged, and put it back in his coat pocket. “Anyway, this isn’t a hiding spot or youth hostel. Go away and pester some other genius.”

“Delovoa,” I began, “you’re always releasing poison gas—”

“Or radiation,” MTB added.

“Or radiation, or lethal insects, or otherwise getting large sections of this city sick and/or mad at you. And you’re always able to lay low in some secret spot for months where no one can find and murder you,” I said.

“And we know you’re not leaving the planet,” MTB added.

“Right. So, just lend us one of your safehouses for a while. We’re in a bad way,” I said.

“I haven’t released poison gas in decades. And it was an accident. I don’t know why you guys have to dredge up ancient history like you’re trying to make some kind of point,” he said.

“Buddy. It was nine months ago. I know, because I was assigned to that case,” MTB said.

“Who are you, Mr. Calendar?” he began. “I have a place you might use. No one ever checks it. It’s a storage facility way in the southwest. Did a bunch of chemical testing there years ago.”

“Is this location safe? Like, can a baby stay there?” Fate asked.

“Oh, no,” Delovoa replied, laughing. “You’d probably die if you got within ten feet of that building. You know, on reflection, that’s probably why no one visits there.”

“Thad Elon,” MTB declared.

“Alright, let me try again. So, Delovoa, we need a place to stay. It has to be hidden. And it’s really important that it be non-hazardous to sit inside of. You know, while we breathe. And eat. And sleep. For days or weeks. And…and…it has to be safe. No monsters or booby traps or invisible cancer lasers floating around,” I said.

“You think I can just whip up any kind of imaginary paradise and give it to the first idiots who come to my door?” he asked.

“We’ll pay you,” Fate replied.

“Pay? Pay? You come to me with offers of money? Like I’m some kind of disgusting money person? I’m a creator! Do you have any conception of what that means? I’m building a better universe with sharks and replacement gallbladders,” Delovoa declared. “What is this?”

Delovoa had clearly been vexed by not knowing what internal organ was in his pocket. He took it out again and scrutinized it.

“You must have somewhere to hide,” I said. “Come on. We really need your help. I’ve saved your skinny neck a dozen times.”

“I suppose I have one bunker that might work,” he sighed.

“Is this location safe? Can a baby stay there?” Fate repeated.

“Check out the robot stuck on auto-repeat. Sweetheart, if you want to be a true sexbot, I can add all sorts of gizmos that will make you a hit with your clients,” he said.

“I’m fine, thank you.”

“Where is this bunker?” MTB asked.

“Edge of the city. Well, it was the edge. They keep expanding. Like mold. But first, I want to be compensated. You’ve already wasted enough of my time and I want to be sure this is worth my efforts.”

“What do you want?” I asked.

“I’m running a business, here. And I’m low on biological samples.”



“I’m not really comfortable with this,” MTB said, sitting in a dirty examination chair, a tube coming from his arm.

“It’s just blood,” I said. “It is just blood, right?”

“Yes, yes. I can pull all sorts of things out of it. My sharks will be even better! Imagine an apex predator with the most lethal weapons and the deductive skills of a corrupt, former police detective.”

“Why does it have to be me?” MTB asked.

“Because she’s a sexbot and you won’t let me touch the baby,” Delovoa answered.

Fate actually covered Sal and turned away. We were all pretty adamant that Delovoa not get near the child. And Sal even had enough rudimentary instincts to cry whenever the scientist got too close.

“What about Hank? He’s got way more blood than me,” MTB said.

“Those little needles won’t go through my skin,” I explained.

“Besides, what am I going to do with Hank blood? Make fat and lazy sharks? That won’t work. They have a tough time swimming already.”

“How much blood are you taking?” MTB asked nervously.

“I don’t know. A few gallons? How much blood does your particular sub-species of Colmarian normally have?” Delovoa asked.

MTB passed out.

“I think you took too much,” I said urgently. “Can you put some back?”



MTB was woozy but alive.

“So how well protected is this bunker?” I asked.

“Unbelievably so. I designed it to withstand a 1.362 megaton thermobaric neutron burst warhead,” he said.

“That’s…really specific,” Fate said with concern.

“Are you sure it will be safe for us? For the baby? To stay and live in?” MTB asked, not convinced that Delovoa truly understood the salient conditions of healthiness after he had removed most of MTB’s blood.

“Sure, it’s safe,” Delovoa replied. “Just don’t touch anything that looks like a 1.362 megaton thermobaric neutron burst warhead.”





CHAPTER 9


Newsworthy



Delovoa’s bunker really was a bunker.

To enter it, you had to go through a fake storefront, into the basement, past a hidden door, and then down a winding, concrete ramp.

It was deep underground. It was reinforced. There wasn’t much room and there wasn’t much there. But the object that took up the most space was a giant rocket.

“He…was not kidding,” Fate said, on seeing the 1.362 megaton device.

“Delovoa is never kidding about weapons. He is, without a doubt, the most dangerous person in the city,” I said.

“That man is a total sicko,” MTB sneered.

The former cop was still feeling a bit out of sorts from his blood donation. Delovoa had provided the detective with a juice drink to help him recover. But after MTB finished it, Delovoa suddenly remembered the mixture was actually made from white blood cells extracted from people with bacterial infections—infections Delovoa had surreptitiously caused so he could harvest the cells.

“I can’t understand why you’re friends with that guy,” he added.

“I just said he was the most dangerous person in the city. That’s why I’m friends with him,” I explained.

“There’s a big red button on this control panel,” Fate said, still not believing we were in a missile silo. “I think perhaps we should cover this up. Or put a little fence around it. If someone trips or bumps it we might kill half the city.”

“I think we should do what Delovoa said and leave everything alone,” I replied.



A few, uncomfortable days passed in the bunker.

Despite the small space, there were numerous hidey spots, closets, supplies, and gadgets that Delovoa had secreted away and forgotten about.

I woke up from my spot on the floor and found MTB fiddling with a set of computer consoles.

“What the hell are you doing? I thought we agreed to not mess with any of Delovoa’s stuff. Probably half the things in here are lethal and we got a baby we’re trying to keep safe.”

Sal was sleeping in a kind of loose, suspended hammock. We felt it was safest to keep him off the floor.

“Relax. These are just terminals. Delovoa has rigged cameras,” MTB replied, engrossed in his activities.

“Outside the bunker?”

“All over the city. Everywhere,” he said.

I walked over to take a look. I had to stop and stretch, rub my sore neck, and yawn a few times.

The screens were small and the controls were clunky. It was custom designed for Delovoa, who had a custom-made body, three eyes, and three brains.

MTB flipped channels. Camera after camera. He looked tired. Exhausted. Like he had been up all night doing this.

“How many are there?” I asked.

“I don’t know. They aren’t really organized. Thousands.”

“A thousand cameras across the city?” I asked, amazed.

“No. Thousands of banks of cameras. Each one with like five to a hundred cameras. But the banks have names like, ‘stupid people 238’ and ‘smelly stupid people 899’ so it’s hard to tell where they’re located and exactly how many.”

“No wonder he could always stay ahead of everyone. He could see what they were doing.”

“Maybe. But a whole lot of them are…”

And MTB pointed at a screen.

“That’s…that’s someone’s bathroom,” I said.

“Yeah. A ton of them are in bathrooms.”

“Dude, don’t watch that. That’s sick. That’s…”

On the screen, someone was making use of the facilities. We were both silent for minutes as we watched.

“Kind of mesmerizing, isn’t it?” MTB said, echoing my thoughts.

The issue of bathrooms in the Colmarian Confederation had long ago been conquered, but for eons it had been a real problem.

Most species created some kind of waste. And the types and how to deal with them were a persistent issue. For ages, you simply couldn’t have that many species cohabitate. Their disparate offal was enough to overwhelm any sanitation and poison a population.

But necessity was the something of something of science. And tremendous resources were spent figuring out how to deal with pee, poop, secretions, sloughing, molting, and whatever else.

Bathrooms in the Colmarian Confederation were, by necessity, a private affair. There were collections of non-gender, non-species stalls that were not only enclosed, but airtight, soundproof, and scrupulously sterilized.

In the olden days, there were hundreds of contraptions inside each one. And you simply grabbed what you needed. Modern units had you punch in your specific bio code so it could reorient itself to deal with your particular version of a butt.

I was a code 1119, 280, 9091, 38, or 702. Any of those could work, and I knew a dozen others that could be used with a little discomfort. It wasn’t that the models required different numbers, the numbers never changed—one thing the Confederation actually got right. But not every stall could handle every species.

In the bathroom, you never actually knew what was going on next to you. Or if anyone was next to you at all. Restrooms in the Colmarian Confederation were about as solitary as you could ever be. Not because the empire was prim and prudish, but because if even particles of biological waste were allowed to circulate amongst so many species, there would be serious consequences.

Seeing an alien, via Delovoa’s cameras, use its own private bathroom, was an eye-opening adventure. It was not something I had ever thought about—at least not past adolescence. And if I wasn’t actually watching it now, I would never have guessed this went on.

“There’s more. Hundreds. Thousands of them,” MTB said, flipping around.

Most of the bathrooms were empty. Just cameras peeping at empty rooms. But there were handfuls in use. And the unfolding, spraying, expulsion, and cleaning of extremely diverse biological entities was fascinating.

“How did our nation ever survive with all this?” I asked. “Look at that. Is that fire?”

“I can’t even describe half the stuff I’ve seen. Been staring at this for hours and hours. It’s not sexual or depraved.”

“No. It’s like…informative.”

“After spying this, I figure the septic systems in any big city use half its electricity—not to mention water, gas, and everything else. It’s damn incredible,” he said.

“We make fun of the Confederation all the time,” I began.

“Because it’s backwards and broken.”

“But we don’t ever think about what it takes to keep all these species together. We should see this. They should show us this. Just like…ten aliens shitting,” I said.

“That wasn’t shit.”

“Or whatever weird stuff they do. An educational video. This is an achievement. You know? This would make people appreciate what this empire actually does,” I said.

“We’re a giant, galaxy-wide, space toilet.”

“Yeah, exactly.”

“What do you think Delovoa has all these cameras for?” he asked.

“Well…he is interested in biology. He’s bioengineering stuff all the time. Like his own body. But…he’s also depraved. So in his case, this is probably perverted.”

“I still don’t get why you like him.”

“How can you see all of this and even question that? He is a scientific genius entirely lacking in morality. If he was in any way selfish or malicious, we’d all be dead or used in some twisted experiment.”

“He has a gallon of my blood,” MTB countered.

“Yeah. And try and imagine how much worse it could be. He’s a fantastic guy capable of inventing body parts, cop-sharks, mega-da-shtronic bombs, and probably a million things we don’t want to know about. He’s a tremendous resource. So long as you understand what you’re dealing with.”



Fate came back from the store with groceries.

“Are you guys still looking at poop?” she asked.

“You won’t believe the stuff we’ve seen,” I said, half shell-shocked, half astonished.

“Yeah, you should take a look, Fate,” MTB said.

“Trust me, I’ve seen more than my fair share of anatomy and biological specimens. But if you degenerates aren’t too busy, you might like to know there’s a guy snooping around upstairs.”

“In the fake store?” I asked, suddenly alert.

“Yes. He came in as I exited.”

“Does he have four arms and a metal suit?” I asked.

“Is it a Navy officer?” MTB added.

“Neither.”

“Describe him,” MTB said, preparing himself for a gun battle.

“He’s a big, fat, green guy with a funny hat,” she said.

MTB and I exchanged looks, knowing who that sounded like.



“Rendrae,” I announced, after we had gone upstairs to investigate the intruder.

The man in question held up his hand, indicating to give him a moment.

“This is Rendrae, reporting for The News. I’m here in the secret hideaway…” he began, but then started over. “I’m here in the top secret… This is a discreet locale… What you don’t know about hidden hiding spots of concealment may kill you.”

He slumped a bit.

“I’ll come back to that. Hello, gentlemen, and…lady?” he said, after turning his attention to us.

Rendrae was a big man. If you drew a huge circle, with a tiny head and feet, that would be close to his exact shape. He was about 500 pounds, but he was not particularly fat. That was merely the configuration of his species—though he was a large specimen. His skin was greenish. His arms and legs were stubby. And he had a collection of the most ridiculous hats imaginable. Like he was trying to distract from…everything else about himself.

His current helmet looked like a large bird had exploded on his head—and it had not been a pretty bird to begin with.

“What are you doing here?” I asked.

“What I’m always doing: reporting.”

“Who are you?” Fate asked.

“I’m Rendrae. I’m the publisher, editor-in-chief, distributor, head reporter, copy editor, proofreader, advertising director, and head writer of The News: More Truthful Than the Truth. It is Belvaille’s number one news outlet,” he said.

“The only news outlet,” MTB replied.

“So? That does not detract from our ranking.”

“I’m not familiar with it. Is it new?” Fate asked.

“I’m also circulation manager. Would you care for a subscription? First month is free,” he said.

“Rendrae,” I snapped. “What are you doing here?”

“This story is important. Murdered Ank embassy. Murdered Colmarian admiral. Murdered clown class,” he said.

“What?” MTB asked.

“Are you insinuating that you weren’t involved in gunning down the Shakey-La-Shake Clown School two nights ago?” he asked.

“No,” I stated firmly.

“Very well. I shall take your word for it. Would have made a good headline,” Rendrae said, disappointed.

“There is a clown school on Belvaille?” Fate asked.

“Sure. By all accounts, it is quite well respected. Of course, that’s respected as far as clowns go, which is a bit of an oxymoron,” Rendrae stated. “Hank would know about it.”

Everyone turned to me.

“Yeah. It started out as a gimmick,” I said. “A clown would go to some house and entertain kids, and see if the place was worth robbing. The better the clown, the richer the household. So, I suppose accidentally, these burglars found it was easier, and more profitable, to become good clowns than continue being burglars.”

“Who would have thought?” Fate asked.

“It’s an old trick. How do you break into someone’s house? Have them invite you. Inside jobs are hardly new,” MTB said.

“But, yeah, I’ve known some clown burglars,” I said. “Rendrae. How did you find us here? This place? We were super careful.”

I was concerned we hadn’t been super careful. We took turns running errands outside the bunker. Maybe MTB was hanging out with his cop buddies and inadvertently let slip he was on the run with Ank royalty.

“A journalist doesn’t reveal the sources of his information. Such an act would compromise my journalistic integrity.”

I walked over and grabbed the round man by the neck—or as much as I could grab without popping off his little head.

“How did you find us?” I repeated.

“Journalistic…integrity…” Rendrae breathed, his green face turning purple.

“Hank, it’s Rendrae,” MTB cautioned.

I let go. MTB was right. Rendrae would never betray his integrity—such as it was. Of course, you could always bargain with him.

“So what are you looking for? An interview? A scoop? Backstory?” I asked.

“We should go downstairs,” Fate began. “Anyone could walk by and see us through the windows.”

“I’m not really comfortable with that,” MTB said, thinking of the bomb, the poop-cams, the Ank baby, and whatever else a reporter might be inclined to report on that was hanging out beneath us.

But down we went. Rendrae had such little feet compared to his body, he had to hold onto the sides of the ramp or he would go rolling all the way to the bottom. Fate, who was leading the way, kept looking back. I assume she was anxious about getting bowled over by a reporter.

Once we reached the bunker, we could spread out a bit more and speak. Fate went over to Sal and made sure he was fine. She picked up the baby and bounced him gently.

“So what all do you know or think you know?” I asked Rendrae.

“Oh, lots. I know ‘Fate’ is a sentient robot, antique in design—no offense intended. Built by the Colmarian Confederation. But the empire was hardly a confederation back then. I would like to do a Q&A with you some time. I believe the history you’re able to provide, from firsthand experience, would go a long way to softening the prejudices against your kind. You have to understand, it’s largely superstition that has Colmarians afraid of robots. Of course, we also have a lot of bad experiences with them murdering us. However, mostly superstition,” Rendrae said.

Fate was at a loss that the green reporter was so well-informed. She merely continued bouncing Sal absently, unsure how to respond.

“I also know MTB was kicked out of the police for violating 482 laws, ordinances, official procedures, and regulations,” Rendrae began. “But I’m also aware he was simply the most convenient sacrifice. Every other cop could be charged with at least as many crimes. This happens like clockwork every four years. Because that is the election cycle of the Confederation bureaucrats who oversee this city and planet—but who don’t actually live here.”

Everyone looked at MTB, who stood with his mouth open.

“Belvaille has the Upper City, a Thad Elon relic, and our city is a tourist destination, religious center, economic engine, and diplomatic concourse. Hence, cracking down on perceived corruption curries votes from the religious zealots, business people, vacationers, and all-around general citizens. I also know that two years ago, MTB arrested a group of visitors for solicitation and possession of narcotics. Pressure was applied by the government to release them, uncharged. But a few of them remembered this ignominious event, and when it came time to hunt around for a bad cop, they chose you,” Rendrae said.

“Wow. Did that happen, MTB?” I asked.

“I…I don’t remember. That kind of thing goes on all the time,” he said.

“Absolutely. You were simply chosen as an illustrative villain to appear in headlines fourteen lightyears from here. So the people running for office—that you happened to arrest because they were snorting pisht-flask with Torkian hookers while driving dangerously on the highway—could then say they were tough on crime by kicking you out of the force guarding the prestigious artifact,” Rendrae explained.

“How do you know all this?” MTB asked, amazed.

“Journalistic integrity,” he demurred.

“What about Hank?” Fate asked, as breathlessly as a robot could ask.

“Oh, Hank. I know so much about him. He’s a mutant Ontakian. He’s from another universe—sent by Boranjame after a different Boranjame killed the previous Hank here. He’s personally met, and fought, with Thad Elon. He keeps Belvaille’s significant criminal antics in check and organized—as well as can be done,” he stated, with a small bow in my direction.

Fate and MTB gawked at me.

“That,” Rendrae added, pointing, “Is ‘Sal.’ The next Ank Lord High Provosh Mastere—assuming their Banking Aristocracy still functions.”

“How can you possibly know the fake name we assigned to the baby?” I asked. “You have to be eavesdropping or spying on us.”

“I’ve never eavesdropped in my life,” Rendrae stated angrily. “I’ve listened in, of course. That’s what reporting is. But it’s hardly eavesdropping.”

“You can’t…you can’t report on us here. Because then we’ll all die. And to prevent that, we’d have to either kill you, or stop you from leaving,” I said.

“Tsk. Tsk,” Rendrae replied. “I know how to report, Hank. You should know that by now. I’ve been reporting on crime in Belvaille since there was a Belvaille. And I’ve never had anyone kill me over my coverage.”

It was true. Obviously, Rendrae was alive. But he also largely reported on crime in a city that didn’t like to advertise its crime. If anything, criminals really appreciated Rendrae’s reporting and were only upset when they weren’t given enough credit.

“You can’t talk about Sal,” I stated.

“But that’s the story! Come on, I didn’t walk down that ramp to see…what is this, Delovoa’s facility?” he asked, disinterested.

“Yeah. You’ve got a super-illegal, privately owned, 9.98 killotonic neufronic bomb sitting twenty feet from you and you want to talk about a baby whose gender we can’t figure out,” I said.

“Delovoa is interesting, but he’s predictable.” Rendrae waved.

“How can you say that lunatic is predictable?” Fate asked.

Rendrae sighed.

“Every eight to fourteen months Delovoa will accidentally cause some minor catastrophe and all the citizens will get mad at him,” he said, as if he was trying to explain a simple subject to children.

“Yeah, but how is that predictable? It’s different each time,” MTB prodded.

“But with all the alien empires represented here, isn’t it odd that no government gets mad at him. Why?” Rendrae asked.

“He does stuff with the Portals,” I said.

“Yes. He’s a mutant as well. Astute. Brilliantly adroit. He has created devices to facilitate galactic space travel. Not only that, but he has consulted on examination of the Thad Elon relic floating above us—I haven’t determined if he has been allowed up there, yet. But he’s not only assisted the Colmarian government, but every government. They all come to him seeking his input. Including the Dredel Led, the Rettosians, and even the—dum, dum, dumm—Boranjame. Though in their case, they brought him to them. Those species are so advanced they make us look like fungus by comparison. And they still petitioned for Delovoa’s advice,” Rendrae said.

“Isn’t that treason?” MTB asked, looking at me.

“Yes! It is.” Rendrae pounced. “And releasing a miasma of flatulence-inducing ichor is also very much illegal. But he’s done it. Twice. Everyone in power knows what Delovoa is and has done. They put up with him because of all the other things he has helped with. It’s the most precarious balancing act I’ve ever seen.”

“Yeah,” I started. “I think Delovoa is so smart, that even he doesn’t understand how smart he is. He’s got three brains. I think he does stuff, that seems crazy sometimes, but is actually some unbelievably complicated method of staying alive. Like intuition. But, you know, instead of some hunch or quick reflexes, he builds some microwave emitter that causes ten thousand people to vomit. And in some crazy way we can’t comprehend, that ends up protecting him.”

“Precisely,” Rendrae agreed. “But he’s not worth reporting on because no one can understand him. And it’s not mystique, like a Boranjame. It’s simply weird.”

“But it seems like it should be reported on. Look at that thing,” Fate said.

We turned our attention to the giant ballistic missile.

“And the cameras,” MTB added.

“Yeah. Cameras! Delovoa has bathroom cams across the city. He’s watching everyone take a shit,” Fate practically yelled.

“Every once in a long while, I’ll do a quarter-page insert on Delovoa. Just some bullet points of his latest accomplishments. Merely fluff to pad out an issue. That’s about as much as anyone wants to read on Delovoa. Anything more in-depth and then I get accused of being morally repugnant. Because I’m bringing to light behavior that people would rather not know about. A journalist must tread with caution lest he be painted with the same brush he paints others,” Rendrae explained.

“I’m not sure why you’re here, then. You already know everything,” Fate said.

“Yeah. You want us to just sign off on this?” MTB asked.

“What’s your angle?” I asked.

“Garm,” Rendrae stated. “She’s behind everything.”

“What, uh, what do you mean exactly?” Fate asked.

“She murdered Admiral Tapper. He was with his wife and two sons—in church—and she killed them all,” Rendrae said heatedly.

“What church was it?” MTB asked.

“Doesn’t matter! Faith is a private affair,” Rendrae snapped.

“Rendrae, that’s absurd. All the crap you said before Garm is totally accurate,” I said.

“Yes, uncannily accurate,” Fate agreed.

“But you’ve got this strange vendetta against Garm,” I finished.

“No. You are blind to her, Hank. I cannot fathom how you’re so in touch with every crime in this city and yet you fail to recognize Garm’s true evil.”

“Me, blind? This coming from the guy who is literally standing next to a post-nuclear, nuclear bomb and doesn’t think it’s newsworthy,” I replied.

“We went over this. Delovoa is harmless. Unless you just happen to be part of one of his accidental experiments. Or go in for replacement body parts. Or for some reason you donate DNA or blood or something to him.”

“Wait. What?” MTB asked.

“But Garm is evil on purpose. She’s the root and stem and seed of everything wrong with Belvaille.”

“That is…” Fate began, but she trailed off.

“She killed the admiral because he was gunning for Sal,” MTB said.

“Balderdash! She has you all tricked. No matter how much I try and illuminate the debauched immorality that is Garm, everyone merely sees a pretty face. As if beauty and evil were incompatible,” Rendrae said. “She murdered that whole embassy.”

“That was the Messahn battlesuit,” Fate replied.

“Oh, come on! Those things were all destroyed fifty millennia ago,” he began.

“I wasn’t,” Fate replied.

“Yes. Forgive me, but a Messahn battlesuit wasn’t used to give hand jobs to tourists. It leaks radiation and was a weapon of war, used—and lost—in war. You might as well say ghosts killed the embassy,” Rendrae said.

“Guy, I saw it. Not only a video—” I began.

“Videos can be faked. Faked easily,” Rendrae interrupted.

“Okay. But he also attacked my building. I was lucky to get away without him spotting me,” I said.

“See? That’s absurd. First off, no one is going to attack Friendly Meadow Condominiums. It would be suicide.”

“That’s what I told him,” MTB agreed.

“And no mythical combat armor is going to not see you sneaking around. Whatever you saw was a calculated part of Garm’s schemes. Just like Sal,” Rendrae stated.

“What’s Sal got to do with this?” Fate asked.

“That is what I’m trying to get to the bottom of. That’s the story,” Rendrae said. “What nefarious deed is Garm up to?”

“Rendrae. Do you know what a quadrant is?” I asked.

“Yes. It’s a typesetting requirement on five-dimensional view-readers. I used to broadcast The News to them but it wasn’t really worth the effort. Those devices tended to induce psychosis with repeated use. Something about the occipital lobe,” Rendrae said.

I faltered. I wasn’t actually sure I knew what a quadrant was.

“Anyway. The point is, Garm isn’t going to do that stuff you mentioned because she hates drawing attention to herself,” I said.

“She’s staging a coup,” Rendrae countered. “That’s a lot of attention.”

“A coup of what?” MTB asked.

“This city. Everyone here. Our freedoms and liberties,” he replied.

“She already has control of the city. Or as much as anyone can have over Belvaille—or want to,” I said.

“The Navy has landed at Slip Splash Fun Land,” Rendrae began.

“I almost drowned at that stupid park,” MTB interrupted. “To keep the water clean with so many species in it, they loaded it with chemicals. One of which was basically a nerve toxin.”

“Ouch,” I said.

“Didn’t you hear me? The Navy has come to Belvaille in force. They were going to apprehend Garm and she killed them,” Rendrae said, upset we weren’t paying attention.

“Did she kill all of the Navy?” Fate asked.

“No. Just the admiral and his family and his pets.”

“That does not seem like something you’d want to do to prevent a military invasion,” Fate replied.

“Yeah,” MTB agreed.

“How many soldiers are down here?” I asked.

“Two brigades,” Rendrae stated.

“How many is that?” Fate asked.

“About six battalions,” he added.

We all looked at one another.

“The point is, they’re here. Because of Garm. She’s going to get us all killed and I think you should be concerned,” he said.

“As for getting us all killed: Look,” I said, pointing at the ballistic missile. “Seriously. Look!”

“Cease attempting to cover for her, Hank. You’ve never been objective about Garm,” Rendrae stated.

“Me? You just called her evil. I know a thing or three about evil. And in my long life as a criminal, only a few beings ever fit that description. And they weren’t embezzling from city construction funds,” I said.

“So you admit she’s been sapping and stealing Belvaille’s crucial resources?” he asked.

“We all have. It’s kind of what we do. You should know. You’ve been reporting on it forever,” I said.

“I don’t want to speak for everyone, but it appears as if we don’t share your appraisal of Garm and her motivations. She has kept us—not safe—but less unsafe than if we had been facing the Navy and an assassin without her assistance,” Fate said.

“Ugh!” Rendrae replied, throwing up his arms. The stubby appendages could barely reach past his own head. Which suddenly made me wonder how he ever managed to put on his ridiculous hats. “This is the story of my life. ‘The truth is a light that blinds.’ That’s from Nixy-Mon-Tep-Yok.”

“I don’t think that was the exact quote,” Fate said delicately.

“No. Because he didn’t speak Colmarian. He spoke Yakkosh. And it was something like…” And then Rendrae proceeded to blow a long series of raspberries with his lips. “But it’s as close a translation as we can get.”

“Hey, do you know if there’s still the galactic summit or if the Belvaille Massacre cancelled it?” MTB asked.

“Belvaille Massacre. Talk about sensationalistic reporting. It’s careless. Cheap. And it soft pedals the honest and real tragedy of that many lives lost. Lives sacrificed by Garm,” Rendrae said.

“What do you call it in your news?” Fate foolishly inquired.

“The Ank Obliteration. As for the summit, I speculate that something that big can’t really be cancelled. Once you commence that many empires to move, they’re going to move. If this whole planet was gone, they would still show up in the space where it used to be and proceed to give a lot of boring speeches.”

“Gang meeting,” I declared.

We all walked away from Rendrae and got into a small huddle. MTB took over holding Sal and twirled the little baby to keep him entertained.

“I don’t think we can let him leave. He knows too much,” Fate said.

“I can hear you guys,” Rendrae called.

We moved as far as possible, which wasn’t very far in the bunker.

“Nah, it’s Rendrae. He’s not a rat,” I said.

“I don’t know. I think he’d sell us out for some inside story,” MTB replied.

“I can still hear you,” he said.

“Cover your ears. Journalistic integrity,” I called.

He did so. Though it was a tough reach.

“There’s an investigative reporter in our secret hiding spot. I’m no expert, but that makes it seem decidedly less secret,” Fate said.

“He might be a good source of information for us,” MTB suggested.

“Hey, Rendrae. Rendrae! Do you know if there’s a contract on us, and if so, any of the details?” I asked.

“I believe there are multiple. But it really concerns that baby. However, the more recent ones do have mention of you,” he stated.

“How much is the contract?” MTB asked.

“I cannot say I am familiar with the specifics.”

“Come on. You know everything about everything and don’t know that?” Fate asked.

“I can only cover so much. I decided long ago not to concern myself with the monetary values of the crime I document. It is far too complicated—and the witnesses are often unreliable. But I gather they are expensive contracts. And the more recent ones make it clear there may be some police protection, mutant monster protection, and Dredel Led protection—which I estimate would drive up the price,” Rendrae explained.

“I’m not a Dredel Led,” Fate complained.

“I am aware of that. But assassins, bounty hunters, and violent criminals aren’t always the most passionate of mechanical historians.”

“Alright, Rendrae. You know this city, its people, its places. Where do you think we can hide now that you’ve proven we’re not tremendously hidden at this location?” I asked.

“This is BELVAILLE,” he said.

“We know that,” MTB replied.

“Forgive me. I am used to writing my reports. I meant that to be in all capital letters. This is Lower Belvaille under Upper Belvaille on the planet Belvaille.”

“Yeah?” MTB asked.

“So traverse 100 feet outside the city, dig yourselves a hole, and then proceed to sit in it. No one will find you until this city inevitably expands into your trench. Which will take anywhere from months to years. And simply move another 100 feet when you spy a bulldozer approaching. Other than our current metropolis, this is an uninhabited planet. A real planet. With continents and oceans and mountains and…who even knows what else?”

We all looked at one another, surprised at that suggestion.

“You think this will eventually blow over?” I asked.

“Everything blows over. The query is how much time it will require,” Rendrae said.

“You ever been camping before?” MTB asked me.

“No. Or hiking. Or spelunking. Or deep-sea diving. Or anything whatsoever that didn’t involve a modern city or spaceship,” I said.

“I’m not designed for off roading,” Fate added.

“You and me both, sister,” MTB agreed.

“We’ll need supplies. And a map. And a protractor,” I said.

“A what?” MTB asked.

“Isn’t that the thing you use outside of cities? That doodad which points directions with the sun or something?”

“A tele?” MTB asked.

“A compass,” Fate said.

“Yeah. Let’s get a couple of those,” I suggested.

“This sounds like a future headlining article: The Grisly Deaths of the Ank Patrol,” Rendrae declared.

“I concur. This seems like a really bad idea,” Fate said.

“We can’t sit in a missile bunker with one exit and half the city—not to mention a teleporting assassin—trying to cash in on our deaths,” MTB said.

“We have to keep in contact with Garm,” Fate replied.

“I can’t believe after all I’ve told you that you would still put your faith in that woman,” Rendrae said, shaking his head. The feathers on his ridiculous hat looked like they were performing a mating ritual.

“If I live, I’ll give you an exclusive interview,” I told Rendrae.

“Exclusive? There are no other reporters. I need more than that.”

“I can give you a hot tip: The police charity for Disadvantaged Alien Youths actually sponsors a private sex club,” MTB offered.

“Everyone knows that.”

“At Garm’s school graduation, her teachers tried to murder her. And she murdered them instead,” Fate declared.

“Ooh! Tell me more,” Rendrae said, brightening significantly. He had out his tele, and four cameras activated on his jacket, shining small lights on Fate.

“That’s really all I know. I didn’t ask for any more details,” she said.

“Hmm. Well, that’s good. I can go digging. And it perfectly makes sense. A grade-school girl was already clearly dangerous enough to warrant death,” Rendrae said.

“I actually think she was like thirty or forty years old,” Fate replied.

“Sounds better with grade school,” he said, turning to go.

“You leaving?” I asked.

“Yes. I have something to research and your article is still at the prelude. I need for something more interesting to happen.”

“You want me to have a heart attack now?” MTB asked sourly.

“Why would any of my readers care you had a heart attack?” Rendrae replied. “Take care and good luck.”





CHAPTER 10


The Lame Outdoors



Belvaille was already a dangerous place.

Sure, about half the population were involved in some kind of administration. They were the people here because of Thad Elon’s miraculous flying city. Scientists, politicians, diplomats, and the horde of individuals necessary for keeping 2.5 million people alive and the Lower City functioning. Everything from civil engineers to parking police.

But about half the population were criminals. They were drawn by the fact that Belvaille was the largest Open Cultural Site in the galaxy. As such, almost no laws applied because it was its own unique region.

Most Thad Elon relics were tiny. Some pocket communicator or busted piece that fell off a spaceship engine and was discovered. The Open Sites around such relics were usually buildings. Just a small structure filled with scientists from every empire who were instructed to play nice with one another.

But because the flying city was so massive, the Cultural Site Lower City was equally large to accommodate all the associated traffic. And the criminals flocked here to not only rob the treasure seekers poking at the relic, but to do all their usual activities with the protections resulting from being in a city with no clear legal jurisdiction.

Also, about half the population were the dispossessed. Their parents, guardians, or field trips came to Belvaille in previous generations and now they were stuck here.

If you didn’t have aspirations to be in Thad Elon city administration or crime, you had zero prospects. There was not a vibrant music scene, there were no artist communes, no sports franchises, or renowned universities.

We had a relic and little else.

However, it simply wasn’t all that easy to leave once you were here. While lots of ships visited with goods—criminal or otherwise—a transport ship wasn’t necessarily capable of hauling passengers with disparate life-support requirements. As such, coming to Belvaille was a difficult, expensive journey.

Even the tourists who wanted to gawk at the splendor of the Upper City—as seen from the ground—had to wait until they had a significant number of similar species to defray the costs of the trip. Space travel wasn’t cheap. And that tour bus had to wait around for you take selfie photos before heading back.

And obviously, about half the population were bad with fractions.

So this dangerous, mathematically confusing place was now tremendously more risky since everyone knew that we had a royal Ank baby worth baskrillions of credits.

In light of all that, and our desire to escape living in Delovoa’s frightening missile silo, we headed into the wilderness.

No one knew anything about the planet Belvaille. And I mean no one.

Fate had taken the initiative to research the planet’s flora and fauna and geography while MTB and I were gathering supplies for our journey. All she found was a single page of text with big fonts and a few pictures. They didn’t even know exactly how many continents were on the planet—which you think would be super easy to know simply by looking out a spaceship window for one day as the planet turned.

There were people who spent their careers studying stuff like that. Analyzing oceans, gathering tree goo from jungles, and categorizing insects to try and determine which were the creepiest.

But the galaxy had largely been populated. There were incalculable inhabited planets to explore. And those explorers usually had an agenda.

Getting a crew of ten scientists and their fancy submarine to paddle through the acid lakes of Norkort 48 was not something you did on a whim—all that cost money. So there had to be some underlying economic incentive.

Maybe they were funded by a corporation, who felt there might be valuable mosquitos in a particular jungle whose snot could be used to flavor soft drinks. Or the local population was interested in documenting their own habitat—before they inevitably wrecked it with their growth. The only other alternative was if an area was so intriguing that scientists were queuing up to investigate it so they could win accolades and make all the other science nerds jealous.

But Thad Elon tended to drop his relics in the most boring of places. Or at least, that’s what we thought. Maybe there were some super duper relics at the bottom of volcanoes or the hearts of stars, but we never looked, because it didn’t seem likely, and it didn’t seem like a pleasant undertaking to find out.

The planet Belvaille was the most common type of inhabited planet in the galaxy. They were everywhere. It’s where the bulk of Colmarians lived. And our particular local population didn’t care what was on the rest of the surface because they were here about the relic. Likewise, with so many other examples of the same type, corporations didn’t care about our planet, and glory-seeking scientists weren’t interested because there wasn’t any glory.

So no one knew what was on Belvaille outside of the city.

We might break our necks tripping over a hundred more Thad Elon relics or get—slowly—eaten by radioactive snails.

Ours was a hasty retreat from civilization. We departed for the great unknown less than 24 hours after we broke company with Rendrae.

We planned on staying in the wilderness for as long as it took for us to be safe. Which was apparently a few centuries based on the amount of gear and supplies we were bringing. We had almost 10,000 pounds of equipment!

“It’s probably a lot closer to a few hundred pounds. But at least you’re finally pulling your weight—or a tiny percentage of your weight,” MTB said.

MTB carried Sal—and that was a tough task. Because the little lord was not happy off-roading. He was crying almost from the first step we took. Fate couldn’t carry him because it took all her attention to remain upright while moving through the dense forest. My job was to haul our stuff.

“It feels like 9,000 pounds. Easily,” I replied breathlessly. “I’m going to have to rest soon. I think I’m getting dehydrated and my muscles are starting to cramp up.”

“Hank, we can still see the city. We can throw a rock and hit the city. We can’t stop here,” Fate said.

“You’re not the enslaved tow truck. This is cruel punishment. I can feel my spine compressing. I could suffer nerve damage.”

“Ignore him. Hank likes to complain. It’s part of his thinking process. And negotiating process. And sleeping and eating process. He probably complained when he was born and demanded to be put back in the womb,” MTB said.

“I was bio-engineered, you jerk. I wasn’t born. I mean…maybe I was. I don’t actually know.”

“That’s fascinating. But we need to go a lot further. If someone can look out their bathroom window and clearly see our campsite, we might as well have continued living next to a thermo-Delovoa-nuclear bomb. Though we couldn’t even stay in that charming location once an actual reporter made an appearance,” Fate said.

“Rendrae wouldn’t sell us out,” MTB replied.

“You sure? You’ve pretty much stated that he would sell out his own mother for a good story—and then write an exposé on how he sold out his mother. You don’t think he’d trade information for a story? You don’t think he’d be above engineering a story? Such as telling an assassin where we were hiding? He knows we’re going out here—or at least he’s the one who suggested it in the first place. So we have to be far enough that it’s still difficult to find us,” Fate explained.

And all of that made a whole lot of sense.

“That doesn’t make much sense. We should just get a place close by. And stop,” I said. “I’m getting light-headed. I think this pollen…might be poisonous.”

This kind of banter went on for days. It felt like weeks.

“It’s been three hours, Hank,” MTB said.

“Who are you? Mr. Time…Guy?”

“It’s called a tele.”

“Those things aren’t always accurate,” I lied. “And when you cross the equator, or time zones, or altitudes, I think time…you know…kind of changes. Or flips.”

“Did you go to school. Ever?” Fate asked me.

“Sure.”

“Because I can’t tell if my travelling companions, the ones my life is depending upon, are relentless idiots or are playing a very oblique and amorphous joke.”

“What do you mean?” MTB asked.

“I suppose that’s my answer.”

“Look, sister, Hank can complain. Because he’s Hank. I’m used to him. Not only that, but getting Hank to not be Hank has been attempted by Garm, as well as the greatest butler in the universe, Boranjame space gods, and The Great Architect himself. And no one could do it. But one complainer in three is more than enough. Your contributions right now are pretty low considering you can barely even walk out here,” MTB said.

“I know that! And that’s why I’m agitated. I have zero programming for this. Every sensor and system I have is screaming at me that I’m either drowning or experiencing an earthquake composed of half-congealed oatmeal. So forgive me if I’m not pleasant company while we flee for our lives away from the only shelter on the planet with no hope at all other than to wait until everyone forgets about us,” Fate said.

Good times. We walked through thick forests for ages, stopping now and then.

At one point, we encountered a stream. And it was cold. And we felt like we should do something to the stream. Fish? Bathe? What were streams for? MTB tried to drink some, but said it tasted like nature and spit it out.

We kept going. Up hills. Down, um, other hills. Over…things. I didn’t even know the words for what we were seeing and smelling and stepping on.

“Hey guys,” MTB began. “If a tree falls and, uh…”

“Is a tree falling?” I asked, looking around. “Do trees fall? How much do trees weigh?”

“You all need to tell me if a tree is falling,” Fate said seriously. “My sensors are going haywire and I wouldn’t be able to see it.”

“No. It’s a philosiphal…a philosophical thing. If a tree falls—”

“Why does it have to be a tree falling? That’s a bad story right now. We’re surrounded by trees. And…holy crap, they’re swaying all over the place! Look at that,” I said, pointing up.

Fate looked.

“Wow, you’re right. We should move.”

“Where? There’s nothing but trees. I think that’s partially what defines a forest,” I said.

“Guys. Trees move. They aren’t steel support beams. They have to sway in the wind,” MTB said.

“Suddenly we discover Mr. Tree is with us,” I said.

“Stop with that joke. It’s not funny,” he said.

“He didn’t know what to do with the stream,” Fate added.

“I told you we should have washed our clothes.”

“You guys going to wash your clothes every five hours? That doesn’t seem very practical,” she replied.



This misadventure went on for some time. All our gear was strapped, roped, and fastened to me. So when we wanted to stop and camp, it would take an hour to get all the stuff off. Then another hour or so to put it back on.

Therefore, for three whole days I mostly just kept a department store worth of crap balanced on my head and back. Despite noted tree surgeon MTB’s assurance that trees were hardy organic structures, every time I tried sleeping against one, they would snap or fall over. And that caused quite a disturbance. Because not only was a single tree falling, but it would smack into other trees, which would not appreciate the gesture. And then some of them would fall.

My gang ordered me to sleep on the flat, uncomfortable ground. Normally I’d tell them to screw off, but little Sal could not handle tree branches flying around. It would be a horrible end to this debacle if he was killed by an errant bird’s nest caused by my selfish sleeping patterns.

Fate and MTB played with Sal during our downtimes. They showed him leaves and caterpillars and rocks. The forest was actually pretty boring when it came to providing entertainment. But Sal was always fun. So happy and curious.

We were walking, or hiking, with no purpose. We didn’t know what we were looking for because we were a collection of the worst campers in the galaxy. We could be surrounded by toxic, man-eating trees and we’d never know it—until they ate us.

Fate could hardly move. I’d never seen anything like it. On level surfaces she walked with as much grace and precision and sexy sauntering as any biological creature I’d ever witnessed. But with underbrush on the forest floor a half foot thick, she was like a drunk toddler.

While she was artificial intelligence of stupendous complexity, she wasn’t Cliston. It took her significant time to rewrite her software and learn. She was basically flying solo, without the help of her own routines. And I only know that last bit because she told us.

“It would be like if you two tried to move around only using your sense of smell,” she explained.

Both MTB and I paused to contemplate that.

MTB was not faring well either. There were bugs out here. Bugs on top of bugs with bugs underneath. Gangs of bugs. Bug armies. Entire bug civilizations that were stunned and amazed that non-bugs had made a sudden appearance in their universe.

Those bugs couldn’t do much to me. I guess to an insect I was just a building that had all its products on the outside, because its friends and customers were too lazy to help him carry them. And Fate was a robot.

But the insects were in awe of MTB. They must have never seen such a beautiful creature in all their bug existence. Not even the elderly grandpappy bugs knew of such a lifeform.

MTB was the most delicious morsel in all of bugdom.

There was practically a black cloud around the poor guy. Like some cartoon indicating his misfortunes. Or like he had set every piece of his clothes on fire, but they were only smoldering.

Fate had been concerned that little Sal would suffer a similar punishment. But I guess even bugs knew that Sal was too rich to bite. So as MTB carried the little lord and insects were venturing from other galaxies to visit him, Sal was completely clear.

Fate speculated that the alien blood, skin, and biology of the Ank simply didn’t match the local fauna. He might as well have been a baby doll. Still, she fastened a little screen netting around his head to keep all the flying things out of his mouth and ears.

MTB tried similar and more. But if there was even the tiniest crack or gap, insects would get in and they’d be trapped in a confined space buzzing around his nose. He finally gave up and resorted to swatting at the air and copious profanity.

I’d say it was a lousy time, but it was way worse than that. We were all terribly unhappy and only the thoughts of imminent, guaranteed destruction kept us out here.

“We’re all going to die,” Fate stated one afternoon. “I’m going to fall down some…ravine. I’ll be able to see it. I’ll be able to measure it. I’ll be able to scan every detail and aspect on my way down. But I’ll stomp right into it like a fool because my brain doesn’t know what the holy hell is going on.”

“I think Delovoa took less blood than these bugs,” MTB replied. “I got welts and bruises and itches all over me. I want to take off my boots and rub my feet, but I know if I do, bugs will get me. And the bottoms of my feet are the only patches of skin that aren’t covered in insect bites. And I can hear animals out there. They’re just waiting for me to drop so they can rip me apart.”

“I have to poop,” I said.

“Then poop. You need us to bang some gongs and make a ceremony?” Fate asked.

“It’s…my doodie is kind of a big deal. I’m a large guy and I eat a lot. When I’m healing, there isn’t much waste. I use it all. But I’m kind of depression eating right now—so it’s going to be a major event.”

“Then stop eating so much! Piles of Hank poop are going to bring more bugs. Besides, you’re going to use up all our supplies,” MTB said.

“We have plenty. I should know, I’m carrying it all. And I’ll eat what I want.”

“If I shoot you, will that help you have less crap? Because you’ll need to heal?”

“I don’t know. But it will make your bug problem worse,” I said.

“You think insects enjoy the sound of guns?” he asked.

“No. But if they like your walking, talking body, they’ll love your corpse.”

“Gentlemen—and I use that term ironically—we have the entire planet trying to kill us. We can’t turn on each other or we might as well give up now.”

“Hello,” a voice called. “Did you all just get here?”

A man in tattered clothes was addressing us. He had kind of purple skin and two huge eyeballs at the sides of his narrow head. He alternately turned his neck this way and that at high speeds, presumably to get any kind of depth perception—or maybe he liked the feel of rushing wind on his cheeks. His skin was somewhat wrinkled and mottled, which gave him the impression of being oldish. He carried what looked like a crude spear, but he otherwise did not appear to be especially dangerous.

“Yeah. Just arrived,” I stated quickly.

“Ah. Then, welcome. My name is Harran. I’m the current elected chief of our little tribe. Did you all meet up out here? Or are they now carting off people in groups?”

“We’re together,” MTB said.

Both MTB and I knew to be cagey until we figured out this situation. Fate, however, did not have practiced skills at being underhanded.

“Just so we’re all talking about the same things, how did you get out here?” she asked Harran.

“We’re all exiles. Criminals—so the government has declared. They transported and abandoned us out here, same as you, and we managed to get together and pool our resources in order to survive.”

“Yup. That is exactly the same situation with us,” MTB said.

“I figured. Who else would be out this far?” Harran laughed. “What are your names?”

“I am DB…BD. That is my name. DBBD,” MTB said awkwardly.

“My name is…um,” I began. I had almost never had to give a fake name in my life. I didn’t move around a lot and people knew me—so there was no point in trying to pretend to be anyone else. I hesitated a long while in my answer. “Fist Puncher the Bold.”

“You might know him as Pale Demon,” MTB added.

“But no one calls me that. I’m Fist Puncher the Bold.”

“And you’re a Dredel Led?” Harran asked Fate.

“Yes. Yes I am. That is what I am. A Dredel Led.”

“Wow, that’s awesome. What’s your name?”

“It is…a lot of numbers. A serial number. Hard to say. So, um, people simply refer to me as Numbers.”

“Fantastic. So that’s, DBBD, Fist Puncher the Bold—also known as Pale Demon, and Numbers? And is that…my goodness, is that a baby?”

He had finally seen little Sal. He was small and covered in protective netting in MTB’s arms.

“Yeah,” MTB said.

“They’re exiling babies? That’s horrible! How could they do such a thing?” he asked. “Whose is it?”

“Mine,” both MTB and I said together.

“Kind of ours,” I clarified.

“Doesn’t really resemble…” Harran began.

“We found him. Our responsibility. And since we got exiled, they exiled the baby,” MTB said.

“That’s disgusting. What wrong could a child of that age do?”

“A lot,” I said. “Cries. Vomits. Keeps me up all the time. Stinks. His pee really, really stinks. And he’ll pee on anything.”

“But that’s hardly worthy of exile and death. All babies do that,” Harran replied.

“Colmarian Confederation,” MTB shrugged.

“Indeed. They have taken a dark turn. So our policy here is to not pressure anyone to join our community. You can do what you like. But you’ve already grouped up, so you have recognized the value in cooperation. Would you like for me to give you a tour?” he asked.

“Tour? Tour of what?” I asked.

“Our camp. It’s not far from here.”

“Yes. I would appreciate a tour of your camp. Thank you very much,” Fate said woodenly—or metally.

Between the forest landscape and making up phony identities and names, Fate’s CPU must be spinning itself silly.

“Excellent. Follow me,” Harran said.

After some distance, he paused alongside me.

“You sure have a lot of equipment with you. Are they allowing people to pack before they exile you now?” he asked.

“No. I just carry this stuff around all the time,” I said, trying to appear serious.

“Oh. Well that turned out to be auspicious.”

“Yeah. Fat Pale Demon is always hauling tents and sleeping bags and food and junk,” MTB said.

“You all seem to know each other pretty well,” Harran said.

“Yeah. MT…empty…emptiness…of the soul brought us together,” I stammered.

“Ah. That’s very candid of you,” Harran replied, moving ahead quickly.

We got to the tribe’s camp and it was pretty damn nice.

There was a huge clearing with houses, buildings, workshops, and people milling around, doing their daily tasks. The structures were all constructed from local wood, but you could spot a few items from civilization—presumably basic supplies that they had been provided on being exiled. There were torches along every path like street lamps. And the tribespeople wore clothes that were a collection of their exiled materials and native threads. Lots of browns and greens with wild flowers everywhere.

“We got hot springs to the right—very refreshing. We got cold water springs for drinking and cleaning,” Harran said, pointing. “And we got medium temperature pools for those in between. Just a little aqueduct between the two.”

He led us along as we all gawked at the robust camp.

“How many people are here?” Fate asked, finally able to walk on the cleared and compacted ground.

“We have forty-three souls as of now,” he said. Then he took us into a long building lined with shelves. “Here we have our library. I take a lot of personal pride in this.”

There was shelf after shelf labeled with every kind of subject imaginable. Astronomy, astrophysics, biology, botany, chemistry—organic and inorganic. It went on and on.

“Wow, every book is checked out,” I said.

“Actually…we don’t have many books. This might have been a slight miscalculation on my part. I was hoping a few more scientists or philosophers would be exiled and be able to contribute. Obviously, none of us had any reading material with us when we were sent here. So we have to rely on ourselves to create the works. But over here, we have a bit more.”

The other side of the library was filled with skinny green pamphlets, the paper created from forest fibers.

“This is our romance section. Standard romance. Erotica. Violent erotica. Non-consenting consent erotica. Pan-species historical erotica. Robot erotica—excuse me,” he apologized to Fate. “And, of course, our true crime section.”

The last one had thousands of volumes in it.

“Wow. Assault. Assault with a deadly weapon. Assault with two deadly weapons. Assault with intention. Assault with remorse. Bank fraud. Bank embezzling. Bank robbery. Bank robbery with assault,” I read, briefly scanning the sub-headings.

“Do you all have any books or subjects you think you might be able to add? It’s not as hard as it seems, and there’s not much else to do at night other than write books. I’d love to expand our selection,” Harran said.

“I could definitely add some to true crime,” MTB said.

“Same here,” I agreed.

Harran sighed.

Out in the main camp, some villagers had started to congregate, curious about us. They were a varied bunch, with species of every type. Their only consistency was their makeshift wardrobes, all of the same basic fabric. And, to a person, they looked pretty haggard and malnourished.

“Hey, everyone. We have some new guests. They’re just checking things out at the moment, so don’t try and give them any work assignments,” Harran admonished jokingly. The villagers smiled at us. “They have a Dredel Led! And a baby! So try and give them a nice welcome while we go through the tour.”

They all waved and said hello and then went back to their chores. But they were definitely alarmed by the presence of a Dredel Led and a child and were clearly murmuring about it.

Two men hung around after the others departed.

“Isn’t that Hank?” one of them asked.

“Hank died unspeakably,” the other replied.

“This is Fist Puncher the Bold,” Harran said. “You may also know him as Pale Demon.”

“No one calls me that. I am aware of this Hank…fellow…thou art…referest to,” I said, doing my best accent. “Ist art my estimation…we ist art of the same species.”

“Ease off, man,” MTB whispered to me.

“Oh,” one of the men replied, and they both turned and left.

Poor MTB continued to swat at insects and bug-free Harran noticed.

“We have a concoction that repels most of the insects. If you would like it.”

“Yes!”

“True pests. I personally have to reapply it twice daily.” Harran handed MTB a small bottle.

MTB quickly drank the stuff.

“That…that goes on your skin,” Harran said worriedly. “You need to induce vomiting and gargle with some water before your gums dissolve.”

That whole experience took a good fifteen minutes, with MTB running around gagging and swooshing water. But he finally applied some ointment to his skin and had a bit of relief from his personal plague. Though his tongue and lips were now seriously discolored.

“We, uh, have a policy of full disclosure,” Harran began delicately. “It helps in the rejuvenation and community spirit. For instance, I murdered four people. They were hapless innocents. I was looking to score some drug money. And that terrible incident sent me out here.”

He looked at us expectantly.

“I’m…I was a gigolo,” MTB said. “Prostituting and whoring and all that.”

“I didn’t know that was a crime that got you exiled,” Harran stated.

“I also killed some people. While I was hooking. You know, just to mix it up and keep it fresh.”

Harran turned to me.

“I…stole…food,” I began. Harran seemed confused and was about to speak. “From an orphanage. And a senior citizen’s home—Land of Forget, on the west end. And stole…more food…from a church. Lots of churches. And from another orphanage. And a soup kitchen. When I couldn’t find food to steal…um, I ate people. I ate a lot of people.”

“I see. Thank you for being forthcoming. I imagine a Dredel Led with the name of Numbers must have been hacking into teles or bypassing security systems.”

“Yes. That. All of that. So much numbers,” Fate replied.

“It really breaks my heart that they would exile a baby. It’s monstrous. Worse than anything any of us have ever done—barring some of the more lurid serial killers we have in residence. Banishing a child reminds me of why we’re better off out here, free from the hideous Colmarian Confederation,” Harran stated.

“Yeah. Out of curiosity, how long you all been here?” I asked.

“Depends. You kind of lose track of time. We mostly go by seasons. Just keeping one foot—or tentacle—in front of the other. I think we’ve done pretty good for ourselves.”

“Seems like it,” MTB said, marveling at the village.

“Were you all sent out together?” Fate asked.

“Oh, no. It was luck the first few ran into each other. Not everyone wants to group up, of course. However, I must tell you from experience, that those who try and go it alone don’t tend to last more than a few seasons. We often find their remains inside animals we trap. This can be a harsh environment,” he said. “Though you do have a big head start considering there’s three of you and Pale Demon appears to be well stocked.”

“No one calls me that. Is there like a membership requirement for the village?” I asked.

“So a quick run-through. We have elections for chief, obviously. Every three seasons. This is my third and last term. We have a judicial system made up of our peers, but no written laws. That way you can’t get around the letter of the law like in the Confederation. Besides, we need all our paper for books. Everyone has assigned chores based on what they’re best at and what they enjoy—unfortunately, those two things aren’t always the same. I’ve been here for fifteen, twenty seasons? In all that time, I can’t say I remember any kind of serious conflict or trouble.”

“Why, uh, why don’t you go back to Belvaille? You all seem to be like…really well-adjusted. Rehabilitated,” I said.

“We can’t go back. Our names and scans were fed to the Upper City. It will kill us if we get near the town again. Not to mention all the police know who we are and will shoot us on sight.”

Our group looked at MTB who seemed to be very surprised at this news.

“Besides,” he continued, “it’s so much nicer here. A lot of the residents have said the same thing. It took us getting exiled to truly get in touch with who we are. To become responsible, loving citizens. Sure, we read a lot of erotica, but that doesn’t hurt anyone.”

“Does this place have a name?” Fate asked.

“We’ve kept the original name that the founders used. In respect of their early sacrifices. Of course, they weren’t in the best of places when they came up with it. You’re standing in the Belvaille Plantation of Hatred and Desolation,” Harran stated.

“Gang meeting,” I declared.

“Absolutely. Help yourselves. Let me know if you have any questions,” he said.

“What the holy hell?” I said, after we had moved away for some privacy.

“We’ve found the answer to our problem,” Fate said.

“Which problem? We have so many,” I replied.

“Surviving. We can stay here as long as we need to. No one knows about these people—I never suspected there’d be a whole village out here. It’s perfect.”

“Uh, no. We need to get out of here immediately,” MTB said.

“Why?” I asked.

“Do you have any idea of the kinds of people who get exiled from Belvaille—the criminal city? You, Hank, are a lifelong thug. I’m a crooked cop. Fate is the most illegal of technological constructs. And no one ever dreamed of kicking us out of the city. These guys have to be unbelievably bad for them to get exiled,” he said.

“They seem really nice,” Fate said.

“Yeah. They might seem that way, looking from a safe distance. But what if they find out we have teles? That we weren’t exiled. That I’m a former police detective. And we’re carrying an infant that can not only restore their freedom, but give them enough money to buy a couple planets to enjoy that freedom on. How nice do you think they will stay? It is really dangerous for us to be anywhere near this place.”

“When did they start exiling people? I never heard of that,” I said.

“I didn’t know about it either. I guess I heard kind of rumors. Or some side comments. But I didn’t know it actually happened at this scale,” MTB said.

“But presumably some police have to monitor them. They have to put their details into the Upper City,” Fate said.

“The Upper City is a relic! You think cops are using it for routine police work? You know, just dialing up a Thad Elon artifact like it’s no big deal? I only know of one person who ever goes up there, and that’s Garm. She goes maybe twice a year because she’s in charge of the entire city.”

“So how are they still exiled?” she asked.

“They’re not! They could go back any time they like. If they walked up to me—when I was with the police—and told me they had been exiled, that they were murderers, and they were back, I’d be like, ‘Okay, don’t do it again. Move along.’ No one knows who they are. No one has a list. I had been on the force for centuries and never knew about this. Not really. I sure as hell couldn’t identify any of them.”

“But I don’t get it. Why move criminals to some forest in the middle of nowhere?” I asked.

“Belvaille doesn’t have prisons,” he began.

“Sure they do. Every damn police station has one,” I replied.

“No, dummy. Those are jails. Not prisons.”

“For the non-initiated, what’s the difference?” Fate asked.

“Jail is days. Maybe a week. Throw someone in and allow them to sober up. Or cool off. Or get out of the hormonal rage their strange species goes into when they smell curdled milk. But prison is years.”

“Why can’t they use the jails as prisons?” Fate asked.

“Because you can’t. Jails are kind of…loose. You go pick up your dinner, you grab something for the prisoner. Simple. But if someone is there for years, they become wards of the state. You have to look after their eating, sleeping, exercise, mental health, biological health—of every species on Belvaille. And we have tens of thousands. It’s impossible.”

“But those species are here. Presumably they can survive. So they could survive in a jail instead of booting them to the wilderness to die,” I said.

“Yeah, they’re here. But they’re on their own. If they starve, or suffocate, or get a rash, or spontaneously combust because of this planetary environment—that’s on them. That was their mistake coming here. But in prison, that becomes our responsibility. And, more importantly, it’s not really our jurisdiction.”

“How can you say that? What’s the point of police if you don’t have authority?” Fate asked.

“This city and planet are only kind of the Colmarian Confederation. It’s an Open Cultural Site. Aliens from other empires are here, right?”

“Sure,” I said.

“But can we take citizens from other empires and put them in prison for years? Decades? Won’t those nations get pissed off?”

“I don’t know. Wouldn’t they get pissed off about exiling them to some remote location to die of starvation or exposure?” Fate asked.

“Okay, this part I know for sure. This is a theoretical example, but I’ve heard it repeated a number of times. Pretend some alien committed a huge crime. So our diplomats get translators and brokers and representatives and contact that other empire. And this goes on for months, trying to find the right officials to speak with, and having them get back to you. And on and on.”

“And then you exile them?” I asked.

“No, listen. Then we go, ‘Hey, your citizen just butchered a bunch of school kids. We want you to spend millions of credits to fly a ship across the galaxy and pick this guy up and take him home.’ And they’re like, ‘Why the hell would we do that? He’s your problem now.’ No one wants these scumbags. They’re not going to spend a ton of resources to recover a mass murderer. They’re happy they’re gone. And with no one to take them, and no ability to really put them in prison—without us spending a fortune—we probably didn’t have many options.”

“Why didn’t you just execute them? That’s basically what you’re doing anyway,” Fate said.

“There’s a big difference between lining someone up against the wall and shooting them and putting them in a shuttle with a month of food and dropping them off on another continent,” MTB replied.

“I don’t see the difference,” she said.

“No, he’s right. Maybe it’s a biological thing. But I know what he means. Exiling someone—even if it’s certain death—and actually murdering someone, are way different. At least to us,” I said.

“We had even contemplated going old school for serious crimes. Like cutting off hands or feet or poking out eyes. But then you’re back to aliens. They don’t all have hands. And some would be like, ‘Hey, thanks for removing that hazardous growth.’ I mean, this is what defines Belvaille. That’s why all these crooks are here to begin with. Because unless they really go crazy, we can’t do much.”

“Except send them out here to die,” Fate said.

“They’re not dead. They got a library of pornography and a sauna,” he replied. “But don’t think they’re sweet people. These have to be the worst of the worst. And there’s an entire village of them.”

“They got bug repellant,” I said.

MTB struggled with that one.

“Maybe we can get some for the road. But I’m serious. This is a dangerous situation. We don’t want to be around anyone right now. And we sure as hell don’t want to be around the most despicable criminals that a criminal city can produce. And we got Sal,” he said.

He held up the baby to remind us. So cute. So clueless. It had no idea how much danger it was in. And that was kind of fascinating. Everyone around him was scared to death. But if you booped him with a flower, he’d laugh like it was the funniest thing he’d seen in his entire life—because it was.

“I get what you’re saying. But we’re terrible at this nature stuff. Are we going to walk around for months? Learn to build shelters and hunt…vegetation? I don’t think we have a lot of options,” I replied.

“Yeah, that’s easy for you to say, Hank. Even if the entire tribe turns on you, without guns and weapons, you’ll die of old age before they manage to give you so much as heartburn. But I’m just a regular old Colmarian. They can tear me apart. Not to mention Sal.”

“We have guns to hold them off,” I said.

“Yeah! And don’t you think they’ll wonder why some exiled criminals were allowed to bring firearms along with them? Like how did that ever happen? Our stories don’t make sense,” MTB said.

“We need to stay here. At least for a bit. We all need some rest. To stop marching through brush for a day or two. I’m really worried about Sal. Just a short break. Then we can decide. Or do you think they’re going to butcher us tonight and they’re just really great actors?” Fate asked.

“I guess. But we need to be on our guard. They can’t see all the stuff we brought and we have to keep in character,” MTB said.

“Our characters aren’t really that far off from the real us. Except for Numbers over there,” I said.

“Right. I break into a robotic sweat if I have to do even basic arithmetic,” she said. “I wouldn’t know how to hack a toaster.”





CHAPTER 11


The Hunters



The golden assassin warily approached MTB’s home.

The front door was entirely inoperable. It appeared as if a small train had struck it. The assassin was concerned that even if the locks were surgically disabled, the door would still be incapable of being opened.

It was a particularly dark night, and the battlesuit carefully avoided the flower garden, which was bathed in ultraviolet light and seemed to have been recently tilled.

The assassin liked to reserve teleporting for non-combat situations. It took time and power and was actually quite slow. The assassin could walk, in the same space of time, farther than it could teleport. The difference was, of course, it couldn’t normally walk through walls or other obstructions.

After scanning a safe space to relocate, it teleported inside the house—one of the cluttered side rooms.

As the assassin suspected, there were indications everywhere that the Ank child had been here. Hank had taken the baby to his sometime associate in order to care for, and protect, the infant.

This was an alarming escalation. Hank was already a troublesome adversary. His reputation as an unkillable brute was legendary across the city—a city that was especially notable for killing people. Now the baby had the assistance of a police detective with centuries of experience operating in one of the most dangerous areas in the Colmarian Confederation.

The assassin took turns turning invisible and moving erratically. The motions were not chosen explicitly by the operator. The combat armor’s computer plotted the course. Though the assassin would give hints and suggestions, such as to avoid running over any blankets or toys on the floor, which might give away its movements.

There were other clues in the home. Signs of a third or even fourth companion. For instance, there was a small collection of reading material.

Scattered around, there were electronic pamphlets on advanced mechanical motors and several about wedding planning. Hank and MTB would use their teles to read anything—in the unlikely event they read at all. The use of electronic books was mostly for collectors or for decoration—like coffee-table fare. Though teles were still not terribly comfortable reading devices because of their compact size.

There were also copious hi-tech tools within the home that appeared as if they had been recently used. They were non-standard utensils that would not fit many, if any, modern appliances. Oddly enough, however, those tools might prove useful on the assassin’s own armor.

All indications were that the occupants had fled MTB’s home. Perhaps even weeks ago. The armor was capable of detecting dust and lint and other impurities and how they settled on surfaces. So if anyone was actively living here, they were walking on the ceiling so slowly that they didn’t disturb the general air flow.

The assassin knew it was at least a few steps behind Hank. And it was becoming more and more difficult to follow him. Now Hank seemed to have enlisted the help of others, and the chances of the assassin discovering them were growing scant.

“Hey, Messahn battlesuit,” MTB called out.

The assassin turned invisible and took evasive actions. But it didn’t matter. Because it wasn’t actually MTB speaking directly. It was a recorded message.

A message that was connected to a bomb.

The house exploded.

Most of the outer walls remained, but much of the roof was lifted into the air. When he had been house shopping, MTB complained that this home’s roof seemed to be of poor construction. But the realtor swore it was top rated and could handle any weather on Belvaille.

But this wasn’t an instance of early morning frost.

The shoddy roof landed a moment later almost exactly where it had started—just slightly askew, making it look like a bad toupee. The interior of the house was gutted. Fire and overpressure reduced anything larger than a few square feet into debris. Anything that wasn’t thick metal or thick wood or thick something was obliterated and then incinerated.

The neighbors up and down the block were awake and unhappy.

MTB had long been an unpopular homeowner on the street. Many people had personally complained to him about his flower garden, feeling the non-native plants were putting unnecessary irritants into the atmosphere which were also seeding their own lawns and creating hybrid monstrosities they had to landscape away. MTB also had an unfortunate tendency to associate with ostentatious riffraff that lowered their property values.

But as the residents staggered up the street to find out what happened, they couldn’t believe their bleary eyes or optical stalks. The fire departments arrived—there being eight different agencies responsible for fires in this area, none of which got along very well.

It was a small matter to contain the blaze. But MTB’s house was almost entirely destroyed. It stood there, defiantly. Like a drunk driver who smashed into a tree and sat in the totaled car attempting to continue driving despite the car no longer having an engine or wheels.

“This is why we need a homeowner’s association,” one of the neighbors stated angrily.

The golden assassin was largely unharmed. The bomb, although significant, was not of a type designed to destroy military armor. Such a bomb would have also imperiled the whole neighborhood, either being significantly larger, or deploying some kind of piercing shrapnel.

No, it was a hasty incendiary device that packed a significant bang. Its purposes were to destroy any clues about their whereabouts and to prove to the assassin that it was no longer dealing with unarmed Ank royalty.

This was no longer an assassination contract.



Every professional organization or dedicated group of hobbyists had their own jargon—levels of classification and terminology that laypeople didn’t know or care about.

Professional criminals were no different. They possessed their own terms and words and meanings. They might not be listed in any handbook or taught in universities, but they had them.

Belvaille employed a tremendously wide assortment of criminals. The ones who didn’t take the occupation seriously or were fast and loose, generally weren’t criminals for very long. Belvaille was advanced-degree-level criminality and amateurs weren’t appreciated.

If you pulled together all the practitioners of any sort of racket or crime, you’d find they generally spoke the same lingo. They could be from different solar systems and different species, but if they all specialized in forging documents, they’d be able to communicate with one another just fine.

Every professional criminal was passionate about their area of expertise. Again, if they weren’t, they didn’t last for long—survival of the fittest and such.

And, of course, every criminal thought their crimes were extra special and cool. Such reasons were either why they did it, or self-delusion and justification for why they did it.

But criminals of every stripe, branch, and breed placed special emphasis on taking a life. Such an act was considered the biggest of big crimes.

And there were a lot of reasons for that. Logically speaking, dead people made lousy customers and marks and suppliers and everything else. If everyone was dead, there would be no criminals—or any careers at all.

Beyond that, every species that had achieved space travel possessed a biological imperative to not kill. Out of the tens of thousands of species in the galaxy, only handfuls didn’t have this prerogative. And they were so weird and off-putting that no one interacted with them very much any way.

Professional criminals had various classifications for those who killed.

A murderer was not a true professional. Murder by criminals was entirely unrelated to whatever their true objective was. Maybe they were robbing someone or breaking into a store and were resisted or discovered. It was an unfortunate consequence in a difficult line of work. It was unfortunate because everyone believes it’s unfortunate. Besides, if you killed someone, you could never pickpocket them again unless you were a graverobber—and even that was only a one-off.

There was also the occasional murder that was secondary to the criminal’s true purpose. Like if someone was going to rat to the police. Or a business wouldn’t pay its protection money and started organizing others to resist.

Murder was the final rectification. And the act was so loud, so disruptive, so irreversible, and so unpredictable in its extended effects, that even professional criminals hesitated in its usage.

Contract killers were a step above murderers. They were the people hired by jealous husbands to kill off whatever stupid thing they were jealous about. Contract killers were professionals who dealt with non-professionals. It was a grubby, inconsistent, and incredibly short career.

Contract killing was consumer-level murder. And the customers were people who were generally not reliable because they were attempting to purchase the ending of a life. Which, as we’ve established, is a big no-no.

A competent, resourceful, and obsessively careful contract killer might be able to pull off a maximum of five jobs over the span of their career. If they weren’t caught, killed, or retired before that, it would be nothing short of a mobster miracle.

Hitmen were the next level of life takers. They were essentially contract killers who worked with criminals. They could be called enforcers or cleaners or trigger men or whatever. The nomenclature would vary by region, species, and culture. But the concept was the same.

Hit men, women, aliens, and beings were those entities employed by other criminals to kill. It didn’t have to be other criminals they were killing, but the targets were not tremendously important or conspicuous individuals.

There was one notable exception to criminals avoiding murder. Crooks killed crooks all the time. All the time.

If your profession consisted of breaking the law and ignoring rules, then you could be pretty certain that the practitioners weren’t going to be held in check by complex legal documents or pinky swears.

Therefore, if you couldn’t reason with disruptive crooks, and they weren’t going away, you pretty much had to kill them. Any criminal organization large enough, or old enough, ended up doing that fairly often.

Since the taking of life was problematic and emotionally taxing, those individuals who could stomach it, became the specialists. And they were hitmen.

They would largely target other criminals—in opposition organizations or their own. But they could also take out minor officials or troublesome civilians.

Hitmen could have lengthy careers, but they usually transitioned from taking lives fairly early. If they made a habit of killing public figures, it wouldn’t take long before they were identified and dealt with. If they were killing other criminals, eventually everyone knew their role and the hitman would be attacked on sight in preemptive self-defense—even if the poor bastard was simply trying to use the restroom.

The last category of life enders was assassins.

Assassins were the undisputed masters of taking lives. The pinnacle of the dread profession. Their job was to kill those individuals who were exceedingly difficult to kill—usually because of the target’s prestige and protection.

However, the word and concept of “assassin” had become so ubiquitous as to lose much of its meaning. People were assassinating the character of others while assassinating their delicious breakfasts.

The assassins that made the news, and people ended up hearing about, were not actually assassins. True, they might have killed some powerful person, and subsequently been caught and put on display. But those were merely suicide bombers who couldn’t afford bombs.

Assassins didn’t get caught. That, according to those professionals who decided such things, was one of the defining characteristics of an assassin.

Despite the casual, omnipresent use of the word, there were very few real assassins in the entire galaxy. Even the Quadrad, of which Garm was a ranking member, were called a planet of assassins, but relatively few of them actually dealt in the deed.

It was simply too difficult and unproductive.

Assassins, for the most part, had exceedingly short careers. They maybe accomplished two assassinations and retired. But merely one job was more likely. And they were paid generously for their work. Which was what enabled them to retire.

So how did the term continue to exist if there were so few representatives? How did they train or develop their skill-craft if there was no one around to teach them?

What people confuse about the word is the idea that an assassin works alone. That a single person is infiltrating and usurping the most robust security structures in the galaxy, murdering a high-profile target, and then escaping. All after gathering data, performing reconnaissance, and personally dealing with the clients that would pay for all this.

Not to mention that nearly all assassinations had a timeline. A customer didn’t want an important individual killed…someday. They wanted them killed soon. Like before an election. Or during a state visit. So not only did the most protected and visible people have to be murdered, it had to be done quickly.

Assassins, almost since their very inception, were always a team. There was one assassin who ran the operation, but they had to rely upon others. And when that assassin inevitably retired, those team members could elect to move up. They now had experience, training, and a calling card of assisting on past assassinations to prove they were worth hiring.

And they would put together their own team. And on and on.

There were very few degrees of separation in all the professional assassins going back quite a long ways. Yes, there were some isolated branches. But it was not easy to become an assassin. How did it work? How did you even get a job?

Most people that tried on their own ended up becoming contract killers—and consequently met with the inevitable doom of that sorry occupation.

Assassins were a very special classification. And they were an exceedingly small and select group of killers.

The golden assassin, of the Messahn battlesuit, was almost entirely unique amongst assassins. Not only was the Belvaille Massacre the most audacious job in millennia, it was the most brutal and complete elimination in the entire history of the Ank species. Not even in their medieval periods had there been such a slaughter.

And if you counted the Belvaille Massacre as merely one job, the golden assassin had accomplished twenty-three other assassinations prior. Although, no one knew of its huge resumé since it could teleport, turn invisible, and was capable of leaving no witnesses.

Not since modern security and protections had become…modern, had there been such an accomplished assassin as the Messahn battlesuit.

But the contract against the Ank had not been to kill most of the royalty or even a lot of people. It had been to kill them all. Which was why the golden assassin had been so ruthlessly thorough—because it couldn’t take the time to check identities and birth certificates with such a huge task ahead of it.

While the Belvaille Massacre was a triumph of death, it was still not a completed contract. About one-third of the payment was in the process of being transferred to the golden assassin, but that left a significant amount of money still available to be claimed.

Sal, the last Ank royalty on the planet, was in the protection of a mutant creature, a skilled police detective, perhaps the Adjunct Overwatch, and likely others.

But no assassination job entailed finding your target. That was an entirely separate area of expertise.

The golden assassin might be the best assassin alive, but it was not a bloodhound. Nor was it versed in the skills of interrogating local populations. It could not hack surveillance systems. It did not bribe officials. The golden assassin was the premier member of its occupation. But, as all others, it did not work alone.

As such, the golden assassin called in team members to lend assistance.



But the Messahn battlesuit was not the only adversary searching for Sal.

It had been repeatedly stated that the “entire city” was trying to kill Hank and his companions. But that was either a gross exaggeration or profound hubris. If every embassy on Belvaille had its staff killed, huge swaths of the population wouldn’t care in the slightest—other than to make small talk with other citizens who didn’t care.

While there was indeed a tremendously large contract on Sal’s life, killing someone wasn’t a scavenger hunt.

Not just anyone could come along and claim the reward, even if they managed to eliminate the royal. If some random person killed Sal, they would simply be a murderer. Because who would they contact for payment? How did they even know the contract was legitimate?

At this late stage, other assassins had been notified that there was an opportunity to collect vast sums of money for eliminating a noble child. But those professional killers were highly placed and capable of evaluating the difficulty involved. Of the nine professional killers contacted, eight declined immediately because they realized it was nearly an impossible task.

One group felt they had a chance and it was worth the effort.

The Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% was their name. There was no place or thing called Nova Ammonium. And 6% didn’t reference anything in particular.

When coming up with an organizational name, you had to contend with a population that spanned the galaxy. No matter how unique or obscure, there would be, merely by coincidence, thousands of other groups with the exact same name.

If they simply called themselves “The Dead,” just on Belvaille alone there would be over 300 competing organizations they could be confused with. Everything from movie review societies and juvenile glocken teams to mortician support groups.

Organizations that had to interact across the galaxy tended to have incredibly long and unusual names.

The Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% were cyborgs. Long ago, they had been a sizeable outpost of asteroid miners hired by a powerful corporation. But the asteroid in question had unknowingly possessed a violent bacterium that attacked and slowly dissolved their bodies.

They had been remotely located and help could not begin to arrive in time to save them. Likewise, the settlement doctors had not been so much doctors as engineers. They did the best they could, but the vast majority of the inhabitants died from the infection. The ones that survived, only lived because their biology had largely been swapped and replaced with mechanical parts.

The Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% were unlike the Messahn battlesuit in that they were not especially hi-tech. They were simply artificial. While not individually powerful, they were extremely difficult to kill because they had so few vitals left. They often won their encounters simply by raising the stakes in a fight so high that others didn’t want to trade.

And, moreover, their reduced quality of life meant that each member of the group was not concerned about dying.



The Colmarian Confederation military was also interested in Sal.

Admiral Tapper had not been working alone. But the people he had been working with—that is, reporting to—were quite remote from the situation.

When Garm had murdered Tapper and his specialists, there was only one soldier remaining on Belvaille who knew their true orders and objectives.

That was Centurion Advocate Uso-Reese. About the equivalent of a colonel in the extremely confusing Colmarian Navy hierarchy. He had been a personal assistant to Tapper. Admirals didn’t have secretaries, they had things like centurion advocates.

Uso-Reese now found himself, temporarily, in charge of an admiral’s entire battle group. While it was theoretically hundreds of millions of soldiers and tens of thousands of ships, all that truly mattered were those down on the Belvaille surface right now.

Uso-Reese was certain that Tapper had violated military law, Colmarian law, and natural law. And he suspected the admiral had violated a lot more.

When those that investigated such things eventually investigated—and they would—well, Tapper was dead. Uso-Reese was not. And he was certain to be court-martialed and likely imprisoned. And military prison was exactly like being in the military—but with none of the benefits.

Uso-Reese was not entirely sure why Tapper had been doing what he was doing. And he had no interest in finding out. He realized he was guilty by association.

Therefore, he was going to utilize the forces at his disposal to claim the bounty and get the hell out of the Navy before they discovered him and pressed charges.

Even if Uso-Reese had wanted to declare that Tapper was a dead and disgraced criminal, it didn’t work like that. Proper, official, military procedures had to be properly officiated, procedurally.

Uso-Reese figured he had three weeks before he was totally screwed. But with some effort and juggling, he might be able to extend that up to seven weeks.

His only hope to save himself was to murder an Ank royal somewhere on the planet and collect the bounty. He knew of the contract from military intelligence, but he didn’t have access to it directly. At least not yet.



The 483rd Hansen Irregular Mob was also hunting for Sal. They were a violent criminal gang on Belvaille. The originators of the assassination contract understood the problems in eliminating the last royal and so they reached out to a local force who had expertise—maybe not in assassinations, but in everything else criminal on Belvaille.

As for the gang name, there was no 483 anything. And no one knew who or what a Hansen was. It was an amalgamation of gang names that had taken shape over decades.

No matter how much a gang wanted to change a name, that wasn’t easy. Gang members had pride in their names and they printed jackets and t-shirts. And then you had the entire city plastered with graffiti which couldn’t easily be corrected with the new name.

No. A name was a name until that gang was completely eradicated.

The 483rd Hansen Irregular Mob might not possess tremendous weaponry, or hi-tech systems, or even be a collection of talented or intelligent individuals. But they had been operating on Belvaille for ages and knew the ins and outs better than any of the professionals who were merely visiting.



There were scattered other groups that were informally in on the chase for Sal and/or his protectors.

There were many people on Belvaille who extremely disliked Hank. And others who had extreme dislike for MTB. And there were some who heard about Fate and recognized she was worth a small fortune to collectors, law enforcement, or someone.

These other groups were almost entirely incompetent idiots with no connection to the official parties whatsoever.

However, history showed that incompetent idiots with guns and grudges were still capable of producing serious consequences.





CHAPTER 12


Back to Work



After killing Admiral Tapper, Garm went into hiding.

She cut off most of her access, stayed out of sight, and clung to the shadows of a shadowy under city.

But she started to ask herself why.

If anyone was going to order the arrest of Garm, it would be Garm. She was the head of the city and its law enforcement—more or less. Tapper had not requested or even notified her of his arrival. He was operating entirely on his own in terms of local governance.

While she was certain he had others in league with him, they were either not here to exact vengeance, or were likely busy with their original plans.

Also, the city did not run itself. She already knew there would be a tremendous price to pay, on her part, for the Belvaille Massacre. If the city self-destructed because she was avoiding capture from ghosts, that would not help her eventual trial.

So little by little, Garm began to resume her normal duties. She did not go into the office or sit down to meetings and glad-hand locals, but she did her best to keep the city functioning. And if any of her subordinates felt she was a fugitive or they were being pressured by the military, they did a damn good job concealing that fact.

“Not my department” was the unofficial motto of Belvaille and government bureaucracies the galaxy over. And if Garm had been a known criminal psychopath responsible for the molestation of all the city’s potted plants and fire hydrants, no official would give a damn until they had the proper form in front of them that instructed them to give a damn. And Garm would be the one to compose such a form.



Garm was certain that everything hinged on the Ank baby, Sal.

She had received a garbled message, via some half-assed secure tele, from MTB that their group had fled and the child’s adopted name was Sal.

That message confused Garm. It took only a moment to look up the infant’s true name—which was nothing like Sal. But she figured that the group she had entrusted with the little noble was not the most technologically adept—or anything adept.

Garm was aware there were other parties involved in this assassination. There could be one or ten billion people who had initiated the contract to begin with—anything from the next noble in line to the throne to a rival empire of the Ank’s. There could be one or ten thousand people behind Admiral Tapper. There could be one or one hundred thousand other assassins hunting for Sal.

Garm was a model of efficiency and proficiency. And she understood that none of those details really mattered. If Sal was spirited to safety—or killed—then all those thousands of other individuals involved would go off about their businesses.

No assassin was going to come kill Garm after the fact just because she had been involved in passing Sal out of reach. Not only would it be petty and churlish, it would be unnecessarily dangerous and provide zero benefit.

Garm and Hank and Fate and MTB were merely bystanders in these great schemes. They themselves were not the targets or immediate concerns. And they sure as hell weren’t of value after the events had completed.

Everything hinged on Sal.

Hank’s team was going to have a hard time staying away from all those interested parties who had numbers, resources, and incentives on their side. And beyond staying away, they had no hope of actually transporting the baby to safety. They didn’t even know who to give it to.

So Garm figured she would concentrate all her efforts on that front. Yes, she could try and head off the various assassins and gangs and militaries hunting for Sal. Or try and unravel the mystery of who was behind the contract and why. But any one of those efforts would take several lifetimes and likely meet with failure.

Once Sal was gone, for good or ill, their job was done. So reaching that result was the swiftest means of conclusion. If any of the assassins presented a target to Garm, she would of course take it. But, until then, she would try and figure out how to get Sal out of here.

Admiral Tapper had done what he said. The Ank fleet was no longer enroute. There was no armada in shining armor coming to save them. The only Colmarian military that seemed to know of the situation was allied with Tapper. And Garm could not trust them because some or all might share Tapper’s goal of killing the child.

The assassins hunting for Sal were not only well-connected and numerous, but at least one of them could teleport.

So there was almost no room for error when moving Sal.



If Garm was being totally honest with herself—and she almost always was—she would say she was proud of her accomplishments. But Garm hated pride. She believed it led to complacency and idleness.

Garm never sat back with her feet up and took a moment to admire her position. She was always planning, always moving, always improving herself.

Because of her mutation, she did not sleep.

Therefore, she lived her dreams. She made her fantasies real—or damn well tried.

But despite not celebrating her achievements, Garm had done an awful lot. She was the designated administrator of one of the most important cities in the galaxy. Yes, it was in title alone. And yes, the important city was actually the Upper City and not the Lower City which she ran.

Still, she had an enviable position. One that had taken tremendous skill and maneuvering to attain and hold.

She was also in charge of criminal operations in the city—once again, in title alone. She could take a cut from whatever dirty activities were afoot. And if anyone complained, she could shut them down. And if anyone tried to move against her, she could outsmart them, outfight them, or simply give a gentle reminder that the next Adjunct Overwatch would certainly be less accommodating.

Garm was also a notable member of the Quadrad. Her home planet was impressed—as much as they could be—with her activities. There were five other Quadrad operating on Belvaille at this time. That was the most Quadrad in any foreign city in the galaxy.

The fact that five, plus Garm, Quadrad could work here without getting in each other’s way showcased how many opportunities there were on Belvaille.

Garm loved to imagine how powerful it would be to harness those Quadrad into one team. Such a force! But Quadrad didn’t work like that. They were all fiercely independent women who had been trained since birth to be cutthroat—literally, to cut throats.

So Garm was viewed as little more than an employment agency by her home world. The Quadrad operating here paid her scant attention and, monetarily, paid her far less than any of the other criminals. They put up with Garm because they had to—just like everyone else.

Most people knew Garm was a Quadrad. That had been a strategic move on her part and almost unheard of in the history of the Quadrad. They were supposed to remain hidden and work in the shadows.

But Garm realized the myth and mystique of the Quadrad was valuable. The Colmarian government didn’t care at all. You could practically be a known Colmarian terrorist working inside the government in an anti-terrorism capacity, so long as the proper forms were filled out.

The people in the government who were capable of hurting Garm, such as the Intelligence Services, knew what the Quadrad truly were and therefore ignored her because they realized she was not a significant threat. The people in the government who didn’t know the real Quadrad viewed Garm with awe and respect.

Therefore, it was a win-win to let everyone know she was Quadrad. She didn’t bring it up in casual conversations, but she had control of media and communications in the city and she could whisper anything to anyone without it being blunt.

If she lost her job and had to resume covert Quadrad activities…well, it was a big galaxy. If she hopped over a few dozen solar systems, no one would have the slightest clue who or what she was.

She dwelled on this switching of careers and solar systems because an embassy had been slaughtered under her watch. That alone was a pretty significant indication there should be a new watch. And maybe, the old watch should be incarcerated forever.

But Garm had seen events like this before and it was the ending that mattered. All the blood and chaos and mayhem were just a lot of foreplay. If that child could be held up to the cameras, giggling and safe, Garm would be a hero. The financial markets would stabilize. Empires would cease eyeing each other gravely. And the galaxy would find something else to care about. It didn’t matter how many corpses were piled up along the way, as long as that closing scene was joyful.

So all of Garm’s accomplishments, all her efforts and schemes, all the work she had meticulously enacted over centuries on Belvaille, it all now hinged on the safety of one, single Ank baby.



As Garm contemplated her terrible predicament, she received a summons to the Upper City.

“Just great,” she complained.

It wasn’t surprising it took so long for her to be contacted. Clearly, the leaders and diplomats who resided up there would be terribly concerned about the Belvaille Massacre and would demand a report on it.

None of them would dare come down to the Lower City—not while adept political assassins were running amok. And besides that, they were loath to exit the Upper City for any reason. And all these disparate empires and species did not use teles for communications. So they wanted Garm to personally come up and explain.

But the Upper City was a relic. A machine of fantastical complexity created by the god Thad Elon.

All these rulers and scientists—some of the most important and/or skilled beings in the galaxy—were nothing more than fleas on a dog’s back. None of them had a clue how to operate the Upper City. None of them had a clue what it was capable of or its true purpose.

And Garm didn’t bother to tell them its actual function because she knew they wouldn’t give a damn.

Every species, regardless of their biological requirements, was able to exist in the Upper City without trauma or even discomfort. They were not required to eat, drink, sleep, or breathe. All processes associated with life were managed internally for them by the city. It could accommodate species that breathed pure hydrogen, alongside aquatic species, who were standing beside a race who normally lived in argon gas.

Any injuries or diseases to their base physiological forms were treated and corrected while in the Upper City. And the relic either provided slight feelings of euphoria to its inhabitants, or their own bodies manufactured it because they were suddenly in pristine condition.

But that wasn’t all. Once any maladies were corrected, an inhabitant’s body—at the cellular level—remained in perfect stasis.

No one aged in the Upper City. And there was some speculation that you grew slightly younger—without the awkward shock of traversing puberty again.

Fighting was prohibited once you set foot on the Thad Elon relic. Not by any rule or law. It was mentally inhibited. This made it a simple matter to keep every empire, many of which were at war with one another, living together in harmony. Because everyone was slightly high and incapable of violence.

The Upper City was the safest place in the galaxy and a perfect utopia.

With some pretty big exceptions.

If you said anything bad about the city, if you thought anything bad about the city, you were putting yourself in jeopardy. It didn’t matter if you were on the ground, tens of thousands of miles away in orbit, or in transit. The Upper City was petulant, and known to murder people.

The great gift of the Great Architect, a floating heaven, had disintegrated hundreds of people who dared to question its value.

Actually, that wasn’t exactly what was happening, but no one knew that. And anything mysterious that occurred was easy to chalk up to the god Thad Elon being…a god. Gods mysteriously did mysterious stuff, right?

But Garm knew the city’s purpose. In some way, shape, or form, it was to assist Thad Elon in universe-wide destruction. The Upper City was a malevolent construct. She kept that knowledge to herself and didn’t even dwell on it much, lest she invoke the wrath of the city.

Being summoned to the Upper City created no small amount of anxiety for her. On one hand, she would be absurdly safe up there. If she had so much as a blemish or bruise, they would be healed. No assassin could dream of harming her in the Upper City.

But there was only one shuttle that was capable of venturing to that lofty region without being destroyed. So if you had an appointment up there, everyone knew where you would be, and at what time, on your slow ascent. With assassins crouching behind every pile of trash on Belvaille, it was a nerve-racking trip for Garm.

A she suspected, no one was after her. Compared to Sal, Garm was a worthless individual. Her price tag was microscopic next to that of a defenseless infant’s.

It had taken a while to summon Garm because the clumsy technicians had to beg and prod and coax the Upper City to allow her. Like tapeworms trying to nudge their enormous host to walk down a particular street.

Garm arrived safely and without fanfare. She had been the only passenger on the shuttle and it departed promptly. Many individuals had been lost over the years due to the unpredictable nature of the Upper City and the pilots were now so hasty that she practically had to bail out.

Garm felt great. Just being up here was like a sigh of relief. A sigh of relief that never ended.

Mere moments ago, she had been edgy, irritated, concerned, and a hundred other things. And it was all she could do to stop herself from doing a double backflip in celebration of…life? Something? Did it matter?

The Upper City was vast. Gigantic. It was the size of a small country, floating a mile above the surface of the planet. It was covered in buildings and structures. 100 million Colmarians could easily live up here. And at the moment, there were about 10,000 beings from every empire in the galaxy.

The buildings were all gleaming white. Just about every surface was some shade of white with sprinklings of blues and darker colors. While the buildings were aesthetically…nice, they were not amazing.

Architecture was engineering plus art. And the Great Architect, Thad Elon, was not literally a great architect. He was merely okay. The buildings were supremely functional. But if lifted and fit into a regular planetary city, they would not win any awards.

Garm was not immediately met with any functionaries or officials. Heaven was nearly empty, and those here, were really busy.

The primary purpose of everyone up here was to decipher the secrets of the Upper City.

It was a floating country that cured all ailments, fed you, and made you immortal. And every once in a while, it would disintegrate people enormous distances away, even inside buildings or ships, or blow up entire vessels that got too close. Those features were the crown jewels everyone was trying to figure out, but there were a million billion other gadgets that were worthy of discovery. The most mundane items were still light-years ahead of the rest of the galaxy. Everything from the elevators and doors to windows and carpets were studied.

You couldn’t bring huge science teams up here—the city wouldn’t allow it. So the most talented engineers and scientists and inventors from every empire struggled mightily to uncover how this magical city worked. And when they finally made a breakthrough, they would hurriedly depart the Upper City, return to their empires, and begin efforts to reproduce the items.

The technologies they found were capable of giving economic or even strategic advantages to the empires who unraveled them.

That was supposedly the Great Architect’s gift to the galaxy. He would leave relics around for other races to find and reverse engineer. This was how he spread knowledge and why he was universally praised.

Even the superintendents who dealt with the day-to-day of Upper City existence were genius-level scientists. Their presence up here was a huge sacrifice on their parts.

It was not a trivial matter to live permanently on the relic. You couldn’t force your way in. You couldn’t buy your way in. Great leaders were present, but their families were not. Nearly everyone who came to the Upper City was alone.

The functionaries, like those who had summoned Garm, had to leave everyone they knew behind. And how difficult was that? If they had a career in the Upper City for five decades, they would return to see their loved ones aged, sickened, and tarnished by years of doubts, regrets, and mistakes. In contrast, the minor officials would be young, healthy, and still feel the residual warmth of awesome that came from residing on the relic.

The fact that so many leaders of empires had come to live in the Upper City was the source of no small amount of tension across the galaxy. Because not only were those leaders away from their nations, their people, and their families, they were awash in a well-being that the rest of their citizens could not appreciate.

But to be accepted into the Upper City was its own brand of distinction—one that was not easily ignored. Thad Elon was tremendously well respected. If he was not openly worshiped, he was seen as a teacher, savior, and hero. Only a handful knew his real motives.

To depose or reject a leader who had been personally selected by Thad Elon’s greatest artifact was not easily done. However, it was a real problem when the leaders of foreign empires spent centuries not aging on a far-flung planet in the Colmarian Confederation.

To keep the faithful appeased, nations tended to keep that original ruler and create “secondary” posts to govern locally. Which essentially meant the person in the Upper City was reduced to a diplomat and spy.

No one had really anticipated them being intelligence agents while living on the glorious Thad Elon relic, but it happened because they were surrounded by officials from every empire in the galaxy. They could simply walk up to someone their nation was at war with and have a nice chat with them. And they were prevented from trying to scratch each other’s eyes out.

Garm only came to the Upper City a handful of times a year. And she rarely stayed overnight.

Garm didn’t like to drink alcohol. Or take drugs. Or do anything that compromised her abilities or rational thought. And the Upper City itself was the most potent of narcotics.

It was easy to assume the floating relic pacified you. But it was much more subtle than that.

Garm had dealt with the rulers living up here on many occasions and she did not find they were much compromised in terms of their darker traits. They were still wily, cagey, ambitious, and adept. And they were more than willing to authorize their respective nations to massacre as they saw fit. It’s just that they couldn’t personally take part while they were up here.

Whatever the city did, Garm didn’t like it. She felt violated and, oddly, defenseless because she could not physically fight off anyone. The fact that no one could attack her was beside the point.

Garm was one of the few people who could visit the Upper City yet didn’t want to.



It took a while for Garm to notice, but she had been met by the Vice Viceroy of the Celoptian empire. He had been standing there for some time.

The Celoptians were a tiny species. About an inch tall and half an inch wide. They looked like dark-colored Colmarians, but—under a microscope—they were scaly. The Viceroy had made the mistake of waiting near a dark patch of flooring. Because of the high angle at Garm’s eye level, he blended in.

Celoptians were considered to be the tiniest species possible that still had enough room to possess a fully developed brain.

There were plenty of smaller races, but they didn’t have empires and space travel. It was speculated that not even the Dredel Led robots could produce fully functional creatures the size of the Celoptians.

The Viceroy was attempting to speak to her and Garm had to get on her knees, then lower herself to her stomach, and put her face right next to him. She had a strong desire to pick him up, because it would be so much easier, but she suspected it would be impolite—not to mention terrifying for him.

Being this close still didn’t help. And he kept backing away at every adjustment she made, because…well, he didn’t want to get squished.

Garm got her tele and found a way to amplify the sound. She took off one of her shoes and leaned the tele against it to keep it upright and steady. That way, her enormous hand wasn’t directly poised on top of a looming wall she was encouraging the Viceroy to stand in front of.

“Adjunct Overwatch,” he began. Oddly enough, his voice sounded fairly normal once amplified. It wasn’t terribly deep, but you would never have suspected it emanated from such a tiny mouth. “I am Vice Viceroy Septo-Mishton. I have been selected to meet with you and get your assessment on the security situation of the Lower City.”

Garm shook her head. It must have been some cruel joke that a species who had such great difficulty communicating with, or even being seen by her, would be the envoy. She was usually asked to speak to groups in an auditorium. It was odd that only one empire was involved—and Celoptians at that.

“Hello. Um. The situation is ongoing. As you may have heard, the Ank embassy was attacked and they suffered a great number of casualties. We have mobilized every aspect of our security apparatus to search for and arrest those responsible. I’m afraid because of the ongoing nature of the investigation, as well as the political aspects, I’m not able to share much more than that.”

Garm was acutely aware that any one of the empires in the Upper City could have been responsible for the attack on the embassy. Just because they felt good being up here, didn’t make them act good. It was a prickly situation since she could inadvertently be giving information that would help the assassins.

Everything about the Upper City was like that. She had to be entirely guarded whenever she spoke. Because even if no one up here had been directly behind the Belvaille Massacre, the empires present were active, political adversaries. Some of them—many of them—were currently involved in full-blown, planet-scorching wars with one another. Any bit of leverage could and would be used and then the offended parties would hold Garm accountable for her slip-up.

They were on the most peaceful, most protected city in the galaxy. But it was a superficial peace. A peace that only covered 10,000 select people.

Everyone up here still hated each other and would use whatever tools they could to get an advantage. So Garm had to walk a very careful path of not offending or refusing leaders of entire empires while also not providing any counterintelligence to them.

Ironically, the main reason her Quadrad sisters envied Garm’s position was because of her access to the Upper City. She was surrounded by the leaders of every nation in the galaxy. Such opportunities!

But Garm knew that was absurd. The only empire that mattered to any Quadrad was the Colmarian Confederation. No Quadrad was going to be able to run scams, schemes, or pull jobs in another empire.

If your planet or species wasn’t a member of the Colmarian Confederation, then it was pretty much assured that you hated the Colmarian Confederation—and all its people.

Garm could not don any kind of disguise and hope to blend in with the Celoptians. And that was the same with the other empires.

All the officials up here despised Garm. She was a Colmarian. They were simply required to interact with her because she was Adjunct Overwatch.

“You will need to do better than that,” Septo-Mishton barked. “Your species has bungled the most basic principle of diplomacy by allowing the wholesale slaughter of non-combatant diplomats. All of us have people residing in that excrement mountain you call a city. We need to know you are capable of protecting our citizens.”

“I understand your concern, Vice Viceroy. We take the safety of foreign nationals tremendously seriously. We have ramped up and reinforced our security details. We have also increased our surveillance systems. We are in the process of—”

“I need a full report on what you have in place and what was the cause of the breech,” he interrupted.

“I’m afraid I cannot provide those details, Vice Viceroy. Such information could be inadvertently used to circumvent the protections. Therefore, that information cannot be distributed lest it fall into malicious hands.”

“So you might have done nothing and we would never know? This is why the Colmarian Confederation is bankrupt and the joke of the galaxy. Your gross incompetence is your most pronounced racial characteristic.”

“Is there anything else, sir?”

“I demand a full report. I want to know who was killed and how it was accomplished. My concern is protecting my people in the Lower City—because obviously, you cannot.”

“Due to the ongoing nature of the investigation, I can’t provide that intelligence at this moment. When we have progressed sufficiently, I will be happy to give more details.”

The Vice Viceroy angrily pushed Garm’s tele. He had meant to topple it over, but it was resting against her shoe. So it was only kind of nudged to the side. He then stormed away. Or Garm assumed it was a storm. Little tiny storm.

Garm waited a few moments just in case he came back. And because she didn’t want to accidentally step on him. Then she recovered her shoe and tele.

She had officially pissed off an official. He might not have been actually “selected” by any group as he stated. But it didn’t matter if he was or wasn’t. It was her job to answer him. And he was clearly not satisfied with her response.

The Celoptians were easy to overlook—in all ways. It was hard to take such a miniscule creature seriously. But Garm did.

One of her Quadrad sisters had written a fascinating report on them. It was to help their people determine which empires to concentrate on in the future—as far as manipulation and compensation went. The woman stated that the galaxy was currently in the Pan-Galactic, Post Space Age.

And while it was estimated that 99% of the galaxy’s raw materials had yet to be tapped and exploited, over time the yields would become less and require greater efforts to utilize. Furthermore, as nations spent a greater portion of their time in space, the relative powers of each race would change.

Right now, everyone still placed huge premiums on the flashy attributes of any particular species. Like how physically powerful they were, how fast they could run, or how good they were at crossword puzzles.

But those metrics had long since been outdated. The Celoptians were—by orders of magnitude—more efficient than any other empire. It took less food to feed them. Less clothes to shelter them. Less real estate to house them. Hell, even their skin blocked radiation and trapped warmth.

Moreover, once you got out in space, every milligram had an associated cost. For the materials, effort, and energy of transporting fifty Gandrine from one end of the galaxy to the other, you could move quadrillions of Celoptians back and forth a half dozen times. And that wasn’t even the most extreme example, considering Gandrine didn’t require much in the way of food, entertainment, or anything—they were simply large.

At some point, if they were not destroyed first, Celoptians would be able to outlast every other species. And even eradicating them wasn’t easy because you could have an entire colony of them in your attic and never know it—unless they regularly held arena concerts. And even then, you’d probably just assume your roof had a loose tile.

Garm truly hated coming to the Upper City.

Yeah, she felt amazing. Yes, her wrist was no longer sore from whatever had made it sore this morning. But Garm was the least important, least powerful person in the vast city-country that was the Thad Elon relic. Everyone disliked her, and was in a position to order her around. And she was required to be polite.

Moreover, she knew the city itself was a wicked invention of Thad Elon. Garm literally wanted to be mad. She wanted to be pissed off that she was up here and being yelled at, and talked down to, by an insect from another part of the galaxy.

But she couldn’t be mad—not really mad. The city wouldn’t allow her.

She didn’t have control over her own endocrine system, and that was alarming. She logically knew she should be alarmed. She should be upset. But she couldn’t be.

Over the next thirty-nine hours, Garm gave accounts to twenty-eight more species. They were all rude, crude, racist, and unhappy with her answers. If they had been able to kill her, many of them would have.

It was unusual that this many individuals would speak to her individually. It would have been so much easier to simply give a speech in an auditorium, like she usually did. Even though nearly every politician asked the exact same things and she gave the same responses, they wanted to be alone when they heard them. Because to these leaders, the Belvaille Massacre was an act of espionage or war. And you didn’t discuss such matters shoulder-to-shoulder with your enemies.

Garm did not attempt to probe the foreign rulers for any involvement or information about the massacre. Even though she was certain at least some of them knew more about the events than she did. But not only would they refuse to answer her because she wasn’t in a position to ask them questions, but these were creatures who had spent their lives in politics and reached the pinnacle of their individual empires. They were true experts at being evasive and deceptive.

Garm was exhausted at the end of it all. Despite not requiring sleep, especially in the Upper City, she could still be fatigued like anyone else.

As she stood waiting for the shuttle, her body alternately numb and aching, she felt it would be so much easier to simply jump off the edge with a parachute or jet pack to get down. But the city would destroy her if she attempted it.

Over the thousand years of the Upper City being known and explored, people had tried all sorts of methods of travel. They wanted to get ahead of the others competing for the rewards the artifact provided.

But Thad Elon’s relic wasn’t subtle. Once you witnessed a couple disintegrations, you quickly took the approved protocol of the Upper City very seriously.





CHAPTER 13


Misfit Toys



Our group had now stayed exactly five days in the Belvaille Plantation of Hatred and Desolation far out in the wilderness. In that short time, we had truly begun to find our place within the small community.

And that place was as the most despised members of the tribe.

There wasn’t any single reason for our unpopularity, there was a whole host of reasons.

No one believed our stories as to why we were out here. For one thing, we kept changing them. Any time one of us got caught in an obvious fabrication, we had to improvise. And we didn’t keep our ad-libbing synchronized between us. So at this point, everyone was pretty confident we were three pathological liars and a baby.

While many of the criminals living here were old-timers who had been exiled for a comparatively long while, they weren’t so old that they’d never heard of me or MTB. They had heard of the other me, but there wasn’t much use trying to explain that. We even guessed that MTB might have arrested a few of them at some point. Only time, fuzzy memories, and the lack of clear ambient lighting kept our true identities in doubt.

We also had tons of stuff. So much equipment that it almost seemed as if we were out here on purpose, like to avoid the law for an extended duration. It didn’t make any sense we would be allowed all this sweet survival gear while being exiled for heinous crimes. While they were jealous of all our food, they finally realized it was better to leave it to us so I wouldn’t go hungry and eat them.

Fate was a robot. She claimed to be a Dredel Led robot. It was a deep, national superstition that Dredel Led were scary monsters who killed you and hid in your skin. Only my butler Cliston ever managed to transcend that evil reputation—and Fate was no Cliston. The tribe oscillated between being terrified of her and vaguely murderous.

We also had an infant.

The Colmarian Confederation sucked. Everyone agreed it sucked. But it didn’t suck so bad it was going to exile a baby—which was super clearly not our offspring. Our stories about how Sal came to be here were the most convoluted and absurd of all our lies.

Living in the Lower City of Belvaille was rough. Difficult. Traumatic, even. It was an unbelievably dangerous city. But compared with living in the wilderness somewhere on the planet Belvaille, the city was like a fantastic journey to the Free Sex Clinic to score some free sex.

It was insane out here. Every single day was an absolute struggle to continue existing. And some days we came really close to missing the mark. The tribe had nothing. Nothing at all. The most addled and rattled homeless person living in the city would be the equivalent of a zillionaire playboy out here.

The forest was alternately cold, hot, humid, and saturated with animals and insects that willfully urged you to die so they could eat you—and many couldn’t be bothered with waiting until you were dead.

To stave off the ever-present threat of destruction required fantastic cooperation amongst the tribe. And myself, MTB, and Fate were awful at it.

You would think all these criminals would be more understanding. They couldn’t have come out here with forest survival skills. Back in Belvaille, they had merely been horrible people. But they were not supportive at all. “Dead weight” was one of the kinder descriptions of our contributions.

And, to be clear, we were more than simply untalented. We were three of the worst outdoorsmen and robot ever assembled.

I kind of broke four houses. Or huts. Or whatever they’re called. It wasn’t my fault at all, but I got blamed nonetheless. I suppose it was a bit of my fault. If I’m being totally honest, it was probably all my fault. But look, all these structures—if you can even call them that—were flimsy. And I’m heavy. So now I was required to kind of meander around at the edge of the village and not get near anything. They actually made the camp’s first written law about that. As if they believed I was some kind of jungle saboteur.

All of us were filthy, but Fate could actually suffer damage from dirt and grime. She had done some kind of deep cleaning in the hot springs and I guess it leaked some chemicals or whatever she has. And because the cold, medium, and hot springs were all connected, now the water supplies were tainted. They had to go upstream to haul back any clean water. And it only came in the cold variety which made taking a bath an uncomfortable experience.

MTB had done better than the rest of us, but he had started writing. He visited the library on our very first night and began consuming the local fare. And he did not appreciate what he was reading. He started producing book reviews of the material. Just short blurbs to help other readers. The “books” weren’t very long. Which was understandable since these were undereducated criminals, after a hard day’s work, writing on wood pulp, with quill and ink. But everyone hated him now because he gave all their works bad marks.

“They had a police officer trip, ‘over his stupid, dumb, fat feet,’ fall on his gun, shoot himself, shoot five other cops at the exact same time, who were spaced around a factory searching for a mass murderer. And as he’s dying, he said, ‘I’ve always hated police.’ The complete lack of realism forces the reader to suspend disbelief and shatters the enjoyment threshold,” MTB explained.

Any one of the above infractions was probably enough to put us on the bottom of the bad list in this bad place. But taken together, you could see a dull, red glow coming from the camp at night. It was caused by the simmering, accumulated anger the forty-two inhabitants felt toward us.

There had been forty-three people when we got here. But someone died. Some kind of tree mammal bit his neck and poisoned him. We kept asking, what? How? Why? But everyone shrugged it off.

Out here, people got bit in the neck by toxic monkeys and it was just a normal thing that happened. No point dwelling on it.

Under normal circumstances, each of us could put up with being unpopular. We were only planning on staying for as long as absolutely necessary.

But MTB had been right. The tribe was composed of some of the most distasteful criminals a vulgar society like Belvaille could dream up. As much as we didn’t want to hear about their pasts, it was part of the sharing process, enshrined in tribal custom, that they tell you—in detail.

I had trouble enough going to bed with the non-stop nature soundtrack and now I had to try and go to sleep knowing I was forty feet away from the famed Slumber Slasher serial killer.

It wasn’t a half-assed plan to venture out here, it was like a quarter-assed plan at best. But what else could we do?

The only good aspect was the realization that an assassin, or even the Colmarian military, was never, ever, going to locate us hiding out in the woods. We could remain here undetected for as long as we liked—assuming we could stay alive.



The camp had given us all sorts of speeches and pep talks about how everyone had to work. If you lived here, you worked. That’s how they survived.

But I was actually prohibited from working or being near anyone working.

The forest was way different than a city. There was so much…junk everywhere. Trees. Bushes. Rocks. Other trees. No kind of spacing or room like a city. And if you accidentally hit a tree or boulder or person, then crash, it breaks and all the work gets messed up.

And even if you apologize, really sincerely, everyone stays mad because they don’t have any health care facilities.

So I was currently sitting on the ground, far from camp, throwing clumps of dirt at other clumps of dirt and trying to make a game out of it.

“Pale Demon?” Harran said.

“No one calls me that.”

I saw five villagers standing nearby looking furious. And these people were really capable of nailing the fury expression.

One of them had been sent out here because he dismembered dozens of tourists and rearranged their body parts to form a love letter to his sweetheart. Needless to say, the note didn’t work. Not only because it was gruesome, and the woman in question had never met him before, but because the note had all sorts of typos and grammatical errors.

“Hey guys, you all want to play Clumpy? It’s super fun. Actually, it’s not fun at all. I’m not sure why I said that.”

“Can you explain this?” Harran said, holding up my revolver shotgun.

“The handles used to be sapphires.”

“What does that have to do with anything? Do you expect us to believe that the authorities allowed you, a flagrant food thief and cannibal, to be exiled with a sophisticated firearm?” he asked.

“It’s not all that sophisticated. But they, uh, didn’t know about it.”

“They search you. You’re stripped, sanitized, and given a week of supplies before coming here. All of us were. Every single one of us went through the same procedures since exiling began,” the dismemberer replied.

“Yeah but, they can’t search everywhere. You know what I’m saying? Wink. Wink,” I said.

“What’s ‘wink, wink’ mean?”

“It’s kind of dark with all these damn trees. I wasn’t sure if you could see me winking.”

“Are you saying you hid this inside your anus?” Harran asked.

“Or somewhere. You know what I’m saying?” I asked, blinking my eyes rapidly.

“Yes. We understand you. But we are specifically requesting to know where you hid it.”

“Uh. Yeah. My butt.”

“It must weigh twenty pounds!” Harran said.

“It definitely weighs more than two heads,” the dismemberer agreed, upon testing the weapon.

“While you were in custody and being processed, you placed this entire shotgun up your anus and held it there over a period of days?” Harran prompted.

“That would be a correct statement.”

It was tough to tell exactly, but I was pretty sure they didn’t believe me. But one of their group turned and addressed them.

“I hadn’t mentioned it before,” he began, “but a few days ago I came across the excrement of Pale Demon’s.”

“No one calls me that.”

“So?” Harran asked.

“At first I thought it was like a…decomposing dinosaur or something. It’s not unbelievable that he could fit this in his rear based on what he’s able to produce. He could probably shove a lot more up there.”

“Are you capable of using it?” Harran asked me.

“My butt?”

“No! This weapon,” he demanded.

“Sure. I mean, I wouldn’t put it up my ass otherwise, right?”

“So you’d be able to hunt with it? That could tremendously augment our food supplies,” Harran said.

“Oh! You mean ‘use it’ like aim, and point, and shoot things you’re supposed to shoot? No. I can’t really say I’m good at that.”

“Is there anything at all you’re good at?” Harran asked.

“I’m getting pretty good at Clumpy. But if you want to do some hunting, MT…empty…empty stomachs are a good thing…to not have,” I stammered.

“Yes. That’s…that’s kind of the point,” Harran said, wondering at the endless depths of my stupidity.

“Isn’t there supposed to be like, trust, and community, and spirit of whatever around here? I don’t appreciate you all going through my things,” I said, trying to turn this around.

“It was sitting out in the open. On the path,” Harran replied.

I then remembered unpacking the gear because I had been searching for our little pudding dessert cups and I couldn’t find them. I hadn’t put it all back together because it took too long and was boring.

“Yeah, but that’s my part of the path, right? Like private property. Since I don’t get to sleep indoors. Hey, you all made me sit out here doing nothing all day and night. Now you’re accusing me of smuggling shotguns. As I understand it, we’re all in this together. I think we should stop accusing each other. It’s not productive and it’s harmful to morale.”

“You know what’s bad for morale? You breaking Thepton’s pelvis. We’re pretty sure his leg is also shattered and might have to be amputated,” Harran said.

“I suppose I can do it,” the dismemberer replied a little too cheerfully.

“How is that my fault?” I asked.

“You sat on him. He was screaming for you to get up!”

“But he’s got a weird voice and it was really muffled. And there’s all these birds and animals out here. I thought it was some nature sound. I’m sorry, but it’s not as if I’m the only person in the world who sits down every once in a while.”

“Yes, but we don’t sit on other people and nearly kill them!” Harran said.

“I didn’t do it on purpose. Why would I? I don’t even know the guy.”

There was a long pause as the group stared at me.

“Alright. Then…you just stay here. Keep…playing with your soil. I shall return this firearm to your belongings,” Harran said, and then they departed.



Things went on like this for a few more days.

You could tell the villagers were beginning to size us up. Like, if they destroyed Fate, what parts could they salvage to improve the camp? Maybe they could use her chassis as some kind of automated plow to help them cultivate. And you could see them all but measuring me to determine if my skin might be suitable as some kind of big top tent they could drape over the village.

Pretty much the only thing that was saving us was Sal.

Everyone liked Sal. He was a cute widdle baby. A spot of innocence and grace in this dreadful place. He was like a magic talisman we used to keep them pacified. Because it was hard to be murderous while you were playing peekaboo.

Of course, there were more than a handful of people who had been exiled for hurting kids. And maybe they were better, but maybe they weren’t.

“We’re going hunting,” MTB said, after gathering Fate and joining me in my exiled location outside the camp of exiles.

“Is that some kind of cemetery or are they digging for new wells? What are those mounds of dirt and these huge pits?” Fate asked.

“It’s where I’ve been playing Clumpy. You guys want to join me? The score is five clumps to four in the semi-finals. So it’s a pretty heated match.”

“Right. So we’re going to get murdered really soon. We’ve all seen it. I don’t think we could even walk away from here without them coming after us,” MTB said, ignoring me.

“What’s hunting going to do?” Fate asked.

“There’s that big animal they’re all scared of.”

“The cat thing?” she asked.

“Yeah. They’re solitary and territorial, so there should only be one. And it’s preventing them from going out very far to forage. If we can kill it, not only would it be a lot of meat, but it would make them see we have some value besides poisoning their water and throwing mud around,” he said.

“It’s not mud,” I objected. “And you’re standing in the penalty zone.”

“I just learned to walk out here. I’ve never fired a gun in my life and I’ve sure as hell never hunted.”

“Yeah, but you’re a robot. A feral cat isn’t going to know what you are. You’re not food. You’re not vegetation,” MTB explained.

“Take this guy. Unless that animal is the size of a mountain, it won’t be able to hurt Hank.”

“It’s not about fending it off. You’ve seen how useless Hank is outside of a city.”

“Hey!”

“I need you to help me by distracting it. Also, we have to go at dusk when it’s moving. And I won’t be able to see anything. You can scan around and point it out. I’ll shoot it,” MTB said.

“Am I supposed to just sit here?” I asked.

“We’re all going. You can carry back the carcass or throw dirt at it,” he said. “This will be just like that gladiator show I told you about: Studious Slaughter. But with no script!”

“I left Sal with Marlino. She’s about the only one I trust here,” Fate said.

“Wasn’t she the killer nurse that offed like thirty of her patients?” MTB asked.

“Yeah. But only the ones who reminded her of her grandfather—which was apparently anyone past middle age. She’s been super sweet to Sal,” Fate explained. “But I have to say, if this stalking excursion does not produce results, we’re going to have to start thinking about finding another camp of exiles. Because I’m getting asked an awful lot of questions about what kind of motors I have and whether or not I need batteries.”

Our hunting party left a few hours later as the sun began to set.

If we were bad at wilderness survival, we were horrendous as hunters. MTB walked stealthily enough, pausing every few steps. He had a pistol ready. He did not give me or Fate a gun and he strenuously demanded that I not bring my shotgun—or anything dangerous at all.

MTB had dark tree sap streaked across his face to give him camouflage. I asked him if I should do the same, but he said there weren’t enough trees.

Fate scanned for us. She was able to see in more spectrums than merely visible light. It had taken about a week, but she could also move reasonably well out here. However, she was still a metal machine. The sounds she made were not native to a forest no matter how well she walked.

I dragged along behind, as quiet as a 3,000-pound mutant walking through underbrush in the dark.

MTB kept shushing me.

“Dude. What do you want me to do? I can barely see where I’m stepping, and even if I could, it wouldn’t matter. I’m not designed for stealth.”

“You’re not designed for anything,” he muttered.

“If the cat is inside a hut, minding its own business, Hank could totally kill it,” Fate said.

“Shut up, guys. We have to be quiet. Animals have like…senses. They can sense stuff,” he said.

“Great. Now he tells us the beast is also a fortune teller,” I said.

This farce continued for some time. The idea we were going to sneak up on a sneaky predator and hunt it, when it had evolved to hunt in this very environment, was beyond preposterous. The only way we could be any worse was if we were underwater—and even then, we would be about the same.

We finally stopped to rest. We had been on edge and alert for a good two hours. It was clear that whatever maneaters were out here, weren’t interested in maneating us.

As I stood there catching my breath, I saw MTB fall. Then flip up. Then fall. Then fly through the air. Then hit the ground.

It took him a second or two, but he finally realized he should scream.

I’m not sure I had ever heard MTB even sneeze before, so a scream from him was pretty damn unsettling. It wasn’t a shriek of surprise. It wasn’t a death gasp. It was some other category that could only come from being out here in the wild.

During my life, I had witnessed fast people. Everyone was fast compared to me, but there were aliens who were damn speedy. Some odd adaptation they developed for survival. But if I was interacting with those quick aliens, they were still members of advanced species. They still understood spacetime and mortgages and indoor plumbing.

Whatever had hit MTB had done it so rapidly I barely registered the activity. Like, my brain simply rejected it. Because I was a city boy. And even a space station city boy had parameters on what could and couldn’t happen.

Fate took a flashlight and shined it around. MTB was twenty feet away, covered in blood. He was alive, but didn’t look well. Nothing was near him. Nothing chewing on his throat or looming over him.

MTB was not a small guy. Yes, I was capable of throwing him around. But I wouldn’t have been able to lift him in the time he was repeatedly hurled—like a clump of dirt in the star-studded season opener.

Fate angled the light upward.

Over there. In a tree. We saw it.

“Holy shit that’s a big cat,” I stated.

It was. It must have been somewhere between nine and twelve feet long. Well over a thousand pounds. It was clinging to a thick trunk with its six limbs that ended in talons.

And it was just…muscle. Not space-travelling, bodybuilder muscle. Not muscle created from diet and routine by thoughtful, yet shallow, individuals. And it wasn’t Hank-thousand pounds of mutant blubber.

That was an actual wild animal. I had never seen one in my life. And it was something entirely different.

As she held the lamp on it, the cat’s eyes reflected the light demonically. Its black fur almost glowed. It curled back its lips and displayed fangs.

It had what must have been a million teeth. Just…complete overkill. Nothing needed that many teeth. It was like nature itself was showing off.

“Can you get it?” Fate asked me.

I almost swallowed my tongue snorting.

If that thing had been handcuffed to me, I still wouldn’t have been able to “get it.” It was like fifteen feet off the ground and moved faster than my brain could perceive.

And then the logic of all this hit me. Here was one of those mistakes you never got to make again.

We came from a village of murderers who were so violent and insane that they had to be banished from a criminal safe haven. And they were all scared of this cat.

So we decided to go search for it.

The fact we thought this was a good idea proved we should never be allowed to come up with ideas.

The animal began to hunch its back and prepare its enormous girth. It seemed like it was going to pounce on MTB. Fate reacted quickly and waved her arms, the light dancing.

That distracted the cat and it roared, opening its enormous jaws.

It didn’t have a million teeth. It was like a hundred billion, long as swords. And shiny. How did it get such white teeth? Like it was going to the dentist every day for a cleaning.

The sound the creature produced was a horror.

I couldn’t even describe it because I had never heard anything remotely similar. There were no analogies I could call forth from my civilized mind. This was a primordial beast whose purpose was to slaughter within a primordial world.

And here we were.

“Hank,” MTB gurgled. “My gun.”

I looked around but didn’t see it. It was hard to take my eyes off the enormous carnivore perched nearby.

“Klook! Block! Bleek!” Fate yelled, gibbering at the creature to keep its attention.

I took a few steps forward to search for the gun and the cat fixed its gaze on me and grumbled. A deep, chest-cavity vibration I could feel in my nose cartilage.

“Nope!” I said, immediately turning and walking back.

“Hank. Do something,” Fate urged. “It’s not going to leave.”

“By the…stump,” MTB said with difficulty.

Fate flicked the light around to help me. But she quickly focused it back on the cat. She was probably hoping that if it was nocturnal, it wouldn’t enjoy flashlights. Though, by appearances, this cat absolutely hated everything. Hate itself was probably jealous of this cat for how hateful it was.

I inched my way to the gun.

“Make some noise, Hank. Try and scare it,” Fate said.

“Scare that? With what? My bank statement? Details of my love life? With my sarcasm?”

“Just hurry up,” she pleaded.

The cat spun around on the tree. It did a full 360, just to show off. Ten feet of cat turned on a tree and chunks of wood went flying in every direction. It sounded like a hundred people ice skating—angrily. And it did that turn in a split second.

I froze.

“Hank. The gun,” she said.

“Pshh. Pshh,” I hissed. I was honestly frightened and did not appreciate being forced to be unfrightened.

I took a few careful steps toward the gun. Fate oscillated between distraction and not antagonizing the animal.

“Don’t lock eyes with it,” Fate cautioned.

I turned my head so fast I almost decapitated myself. I gently crouched down to feel around for the gun while I faced anywhere not at the cat. After what seemed like weeks, I finally got hold of the pistol and slowly stood back up.

“Want me to throw it to you?” I asked MTB.

“I’m bleeding out, man. You gotta shoot it.”

“I’m not really…I can’t hit that,” I said.

“MTB. Walk him through it.”

“Click off the safety. On the left. No, that’s the range…your other left. Your other one!”

“Shh,” Fate said, trying to calm MTB so the beast didn’t eat him.

“Extend your arm. The one with the gun.”

“We’re going to die,” Fate whispered. “Sha! Bock!” She taunted at the cat, trying to keep it focused.

“Close your right eye. Look at the sight. Now look at your target. Raise the gun toward it. You have to aim for the body. Forget the head.”

“Hurry,” Fate said urgently.

She waved an arm, stomped her foot. She was trying to keep the cat guessing, but even those actions were starting to hold little interest for the animal. It was getting used to them—and getting hungry. If at any point the beast simply got tired of Fate and her flashlight, it could smash her with no effort. She was aware of that, and was therefore judicious with her pestering.

“Do you have it sighted?” he asked me.

“I think so.”

“You think or are you sure?”

“I kinda think.”

“Well…take in a deep breath. Let out half and hold it. Sort of unfocus your eye so you can see the sight and the cat equally. Middle distance. Look through the gun to your target.”

This was nerve-racking. The animal skittered around. It was agitated but uncertain. The rest of us were absolutely terrified.

MTB needed medical attention and we were facing off against a nightmare. A creature we had no business observing outside of a zoo—let alone teasing with flashlights.

It was clear that if I missed, if I didn’t stop this thing, MTB was going to die. This monster was going to devour him right in front of us and there would be nothing we could do.

And if the cat felt like chasing me down for an unhealthy dessert, it would be extremely difficult to prevent it from slaughtering me too.

“Now. Slowly squeeze the trigger,” MTB said.

I didn’t know where I was or what I was doing and I could barely comprehend the thing I was attempting to kill.

I was not confident. This was not my area of expertise. This was ten degrees of separation from anything I might be considered an expert at.

“You can do it, Hank,” Fate told me.

It was painfully, ridiculously clear that our lives depended upon my success.

I slowly pulled the trigger.

Blam!

“Ack!” Fate exclaimed, as I shot her in the shoulder.

She spun and fell.

I hadn’t realized it, but I had been standing on one foot. I’m not sure why. Something about MTB’s instructions. But seeing sparks fly off Fate, seeing her drop, seeing everything go totally wrong, I lost my balance and tumbled backwards.

While I was falling, I shot my own forearm as I flailed my opposite arm in front of the gun. My impact with the ground sent up a plume of dirt and leaves. As the debris settled, the high-pitched tinkling sounded as if the forest itself was laughing at my failure.

An animal the size of the feral cat had to carefully portion out its expenditure of energy in exchange for food. It could not wantonly frolic or spend precious hours not hunting or it would quickly tire, lose its capabilities, and then starve to death. It had to be eating, sleeping, or hunting for things to eat and places to sleep at all times.

As much as we didn’t understand the creature, it understood even less about us. It knew MTB was food, but it could tell he was not exactly great food. Too many bones, organs filled with noxious biology, and very little good meat.

The animal had no idea what Fate was or her flashlight. She looked weird, smelled weird, and sounded weird.

The cat was also terribly uncertain what I was. I kind of had a food scent, like when I breathed, or burped, or farted—all common events. But I was completely encased in non-food and clearly massive.

And the gun was the worst part. The noise was orders of magnitude louder than anything the cat had ever experienced. A dozen trees collapsing. Three simultaneous lightning strikes. When the bullet hit Fate, there was a piercing scream of metal tearing.

The feral cat was not scared, but it had just witnessed one weird thing too many.

And it was done. Totally done with this parade of confusion put on by things it couldn’t understand or consume.

The cat’s instincts told it to leave this place and find easier, more nutritious food.

So that’s what it did.



Fate got to her feet and rushed to MTB.

I stood up some time later. My left forearm was sore, but okay. I kept my eyes fixed on the dark forest, despite me being unable to see more than seven feet.

“Put that gun down!” Fate yelled.

“It might come back,” I replied.

“And then what are you going to do, shoot me in the head? Help with MTB,” she said.

I went over while Fate retrieved her flashlight.

The casing around her shoulder was rent and twisted, but her arm was still functional. She had significantly impaired range of motion, however.

MTB was bruised about the face and neck and he had moderate puncture wounds in his chest from where the cat had grabbed hold of him. But it looked a lot worse than it actually was. The concussive forces of being tossed and slammed repeatedly had done the most harm.

“Are these clothes armored?” I asked. That cat should have ripped open his chest when it clutched him.

“All my clothes are. Even…even my underwear. Belvaille…dangerous,” he breathed.

“I think he might be in shock. Maybe some broken bones. And knowing this damn forest, those claws could be poisonous,” Fate said.

“Are you alright? Sorry for…I shot my own arm, too,” I said, showing off the insignificant bruise.

“No, I’m not alright! But I’ll live,” Fate replied. “We really need to get MTB to a hospital.”

“That’s days from here. Even if we were able to go full speed.”

“You think the ‘shaman’ in the village will be able to help him? If someone gets a bump on the nose, they practically leave them to die,” she said.

It was true. They did not seem particularly capable of treating injuries. And they had a fatalistic mentality toward nearly any kind of loss.

“Alright. You guys stay here. I’ll get our gear and recover Sal,” I said.

“They…won’t let us go. Won’t give up Sal,” MTB said.

“He’s right. If we’re dragging along, they’ll come after us. At the very least, to take our supplies. Then we won’t make it back at all. And they’ve grown attached to Sal.”

“I’ll take care of it,” I said.

“When have you taken care of anything, Hank? You’re the most incompetent person I’ve met in the hundred thousand or so years of my life! You have only managed to survive as long as you have because you’re so damn hard to kill,” Fate said.

“I know,” I sighed, handing her the pistol. “But if there’s one thing I’m good at, it’s dealing with unreasonable, violent criminals.”

I got back to the village outskirts and went for the gear first. That took the longest to pack and arrange. From there, I was hoping I would be able to sneak in, get Sal, and sneak out.

I thought long and hard about whether I should have my shotgun at the ready. But already tonight I was oh for two on shooting. And my shotgun fired twin barrels of buckshot. That wasn’t a good weapon to give to a poor marksman around an innocent baby.

The camp was dark and quiet, everyone asleep. Jungle living was best accomplished during the daylight, when you were actually able to see what was trying to kill you.

I crept into Marlino’s hut. That’s where Sal would be. The murderous nurse had constructed a little crib for the baby. It was actually pretty decent craftsmanship. Marlino was asleep on her cot about five feet away.

I gently lifted the entire crib. I was still kind of hyped up on fear and adrenaline. It was safer for me to carry the crib than attempt carrying Sal directly.

I turned to leave. Because of all the gear I was hauling, I misjudged my dimensions—and it wasn’t exactly a spacious home. I bumped into the side of the doorway. The wall became dislodged and the hut collapsed behind me.

Marlino screamed and continued screaming from beneath the wreckage.

The village poured out.

They grabbed torches and primitive weapons. They must be very light sleepers to assemble so quickly and aggressively. They surrounded me as a handful attempted to pull Marlino from her destroyed hut.

“Oh. Hey, everyone,” I said, feigning cheerful surprise. “So you’ll all be glad to know that we’ve decided to get out of your way and leave the village. Clearly, we just aren’t a good fit. We really appreciate the assistance you’ve provided and we’re sorry for any inconveniences we’ve visited upon you. You have been extremely gracious and wonderful. It’s been a true blessing to have met you.”

In other circumstances, that speech might have been decent to a bunch of sleepy villagers who already wanted us gone—in their more generous moments. But Marlino continued to wail and shriek and it really undermined anything I was attempting to say. I had to speak up to even be heard over her.

“You’re not taking Sal,” one of them said, holding a spear menacingly.

These were all psychopaths of some shade or degree. Lunatics who had found a measure of peace since exile. But now they were in full-on crazy mode.

Harran approached. He thankfully appeared much more collected than the others.

“You have to leave the supplies. Including your firearm. That is restitution for all the damage you’ve caused,” he said.

About half the village nodded, but I could see the other half wanted more. They wanted blood.

“Yeah. So I’m going to be straight with you guys. You were right. I’m Hank.”

“I thought his name was Pale Demon.”

“No one calls me that. I wasn’t banished out here. I came on my own.”

“And you are leaving without the supplies,” Harran repeated firmly.

“Look. You all might think you were hot stuff back in your glory days. Cold-blooded killers banned from society for your cold-blooded killing. But however many people you all have murdered, I do that in a single long weekend. Except I don’t drug and kidnap teenage runaways or nothing like that. The people I kill are other killers. Professionals.”

The village did not seem convinced. So I decided to dial it up.

“That big cat you all are scared of. I went out and offed it. A few hours ago. Six legs. Big teeth. Like ten feet long? Got it.”

“You slew the Deviant Midnight Ripper?” someone asked incredulously.

“What a dumb name. It’s not a serial killer. Are those the only kind of names you can come up with? It should be called something a zoologist would use. Like Colossal Claw…Puncher the Brave. Okay, that’s a bad name, too.”

“If you killed it, where is the body?” someone asked, obviously not believing my story.

“You think I’m going to carry it around with me? Drape it over my shoulder like a scarf, with half of it dragging on the ground behind me? I left it by a tree. There’s no landmarks out there.”

“There’s plenty. The Western Chasm. Long Lake. Wide Cavern. Bamboo Island. Eastern Pass. Wetlands—north and south.”

“Well, forgive me, but I don’t know any of those places. Everyone threw a fit whenever I moved around and tried to get acquainted.”

“It’s unlikely you fought the Deviant Midnight Ripper. More than likely, it was some other animal. This area has quite a few varieties. But, in any case, that does not alter the situation,” Harran stated.

“Yeah, you’re not getting out of here,” someone added menacingly.

Despite the tense situation, I couldn’t help but smile. This lot was frankly a relief after the monster cat.

“I kind of feel like you guys are trying to threaten me. But you have sticks. And rocks. And, what’s that, a sharpened belt buckle? I’ve broken half your houses and crippled three…or seven of you. And that was me honestly trying to be helpful. You all really don’t want to fight me for serious.”

“Maybe. But we can get Sal,” someone said.

And that was a brutal damn truth.

A lot of villagers liked Sal. But there were some seriously unstable people here that I had just provoked into becoming even more unbalanced. It only took one of them to hurt Sal. And I couldn’t protect him from a mob.

Especially a mob hounding us for days through a forest while we dragged an injured MTB and wobbly robot.

“Alright. Here’s what I’m going to do. I told you I wasn’t exiled. None of us were. I have some information that can fundamentally improve your lives. I’m talking drastically better conditions than what you got now.”

“Well? What is it?”

“I can’t really tell you at the moment. I need some kind of assurances that we can get out of here safely,” I said.

A spindly man approached. He had been the most assertive with his spear. His name was Wamp-Jo and I knew from his vivid retellings that he had been a serial arsonist who specialized in burning down hospitals. He laughed for five minutes when he described burning down the burn ward in one institution. He was a truly odious creature and would be tough to reason with.

“What’s this information?” he asked me through clenched teeth.

“I promise, it will blow your mind. I can give you freedom! I just want me and my friends to get out of here and we’ll leave you to it.”

Harran stood back and looked at me hard, turning his narrow head this way and that to try and gauge my intentions.

“Alright. We will trust you,” Harran began. “Despite your threatening characteristics, I do not believe you hurt any of us intentionally. You have a deal. Wamp-Jo shall walk with you long enough to make sure you are not harassed or followed. Is that acceptable, Pale Demon?”

“Yes. But no one calls me that.”

“You better not try nothing,” Wamp-Jo, the hospital torcher, warned.

Switching Sal’s crib to one arm, I put my other hand on Wamp-Jo’s shoulder and we turned to face the assembled villagers.

“Okay, so here’s what we’re going to do,” I began. “I’m going to take my buddy here, and we’re—”

And then Wamp-Jo yelled and fell to the ground, his arms and legs twitched a bit, and then were still.

“What did you do?” someone shouted.

“Nothing,” I said, confused.

“You broke my back you fat oaf!” Wamp-Jo cried.

“I barely touched him. I didn’t mean to. We had an agreement and everything.”

A woman crouched next to Wamp-Jo to try and help.

“His species came from aquatic creatures. From fish. His bones are thin,” she stated venomously.

“I’m supposed to know all of your evolutionary histories? Tell me next time,” I said.

“You need to be told not to break someone’s spine? You shouldn’t be carrying Sal at all. You’re too large and clumsy,” she said.

The villagers were in various stages of rage, indignation, or delusion—depending on what had gotten them exiled in the first place. They started to press in on me.

“Okay! Okay! I will tell you the great secret I was going to save for later,” I shouted.

They halted momentarily and waited.

“You all can go back to Belvaille any time you want!”

“What do you mean?” Harran asked.

“No one remembers you. No one knows who you are. The Upper City doesn’t have some database of your identities. Do you honestly think a Thad Elon relic gives a crap about you—or anyone for that matter? You were sent out here with the expectation you would die. And probably most of you did. The police gave some vague hints you couldn’t go back, and that was enough to keep you spinning around until you ran out of food or got mauled by a Colossal…Crush…Facer.”

“How do you know all this?”

“Because we didn’t know you were out here. We didn’t know there was such a thing as exiled criminals. It’s not official Belvaille policy. I deal with crooked cops all the time and none of them were aware of this.”

“We can go back to the city?” someone asked.

“Yes!”

“So it’s now legal to cut out the tongues of those who offend your ancestor spirits?” another asked, searching for more details.

And I realized I was inviting an entire village of infamous serial murderers back to my home town.

“Uh. I mean, I would probably refrain from those kinds of activities?” I hazarded weakly.

“He’s lying,” Harran stated. “He wants us to abandon the Belvaille Plantation of Hatred and Desolation. Give up all the work we have accomplished. The growth we have experienced. The painstaking steps we have taken over countless seasons to develop a first-class library of erotica!”

I had been in enough negotiations with criminals to see things were going south. I didn’t have their trust. I didn’t have their fear. I didn’t have anything. They had been here so long that this was their total reality and my words carried little meaning.

Furthermore, they were anxious to either fight, steal my stuff, or hurt Sal.

I had to be Fist Puncher the Bold.

“Alright. Let me lay this out. You all created this village, this cooperative environment, because you wanted to live. No one struggles this hard to scratch out an existence if they are suicidal,” I began.

I then stomped my foot on Wamp-Jo. The action crushed much of his upper body, killing him instantly.

The villagers were shocked. I can’t say they were horrified, considering the things they had done in their collective pasts. But they ceased their forward motion and retreated a few steps, buying me some room.

I didn’t like murdering defenseless people—even if they were infirmary incinerators.

It had been a purely combat decision. I was covered in camping gear. I was holding Sal in his crib. If I had lunged at someone or started hand-to-hand fighting, the others would have rushed in and done whatever damage they could. The guy on the ground was the only target I could hit without endangering Sal.

“You all are nothing to me,” I continued, using my toughest of tough personas. “I’m bulletproof and your most advanced weapon is a pointy stick. I have fought Therezians. I have fought Boranjame. I have fought Thad Fricken’ Elon himself! I didn’t win any of those fights. But I’m still standing. You want to scuffle with me, we can do it. But I swear to you—I absolutely promise you—I will kill you all. Not on accident. Not by mistake. I will destroy this village and kill every last one of you. And yeah, you can hurt baby Sal. But, if you’re here, taking the time to recount your true crimes in book format, then you want to live. And if you so much as touch Sal, you will be full-on embracing suicide.”

They paused. Their branches, stones, and torches seemed entirely insufficient for the task. I had just absently stepped on someone and ended his life. And Marlino, the killer nurse, was still crying in the background, having finally been rescued from the remnants of her house.

“You can be pissed off at me, out here in this forsaken jungle, or you can start packing your things and head back to the city. I know from experience that it’s a long, difficult walk.”

“Do you know…which way is Belvaille?” someone asked.

“I do, as a matter of fact. Hold on,” I said, rummaging around my things. “Camping gear has so many pockets and pouches. Here. See? This is more proof I wasn’t exiled. I have a tele. Give me a second. Belvaille is that way. No. Sorry. That way. Here, look.”

I held up the color map and coordinates.

There had been quite a few non-believers. People who wanted to fight, regardless of my words. People who wanted to exact vengeance for Wamp-Jo or Marlino or any of the hundred mistakes I’d made since I got here.

But seeing the glowing tele, that pinnacle of civilization and learning, was a fantastic jolt.

Teles were unbelievably advanced pieces of technology. But in the Colmarian Confederation, they were nothing. Simply part of everyday life. And I was explaining that all they had to do was hike for some days and nights and they could possess that life again.

It wasn’t my speech. Or my brutal theatrics. It was the tele that convinced them.

They stared at it in slack-jawed amazement like I was some deity bringing fire to primitives. And they slowly began to remember.

All the conveniences and luxuries and joyful mass-murdering opportunities streamed back into their minds.

“Everyone! Do not listen to Pale Demon,” Harran shouted. “We have made a vibrant society free of the evils of the Colmarian Confederation. Do not give it up so easily.”

But it was done.

The elected chieftain had no more authority. Me, my gear, and Sal were of no interest. To a destitute society forever on the brink of destruction, those things might have been important, but in the glorious, sprawling Under City of opportunity…who cared?

The group of serial killers dispersed and began making preparations to leave the Belvaille Plantation of Hatred and Desolation.

Forever.

I backed away, waving my tele like a magic charm. But no one even gave me a second look. Why would they? I was just another idiot out of millions of idiots they were soon to meet again.

About ten, tense minutes later, I was trekking back to where I left MTB and Fate.

I heard a rustling behind me. I turned, ready for an attack by someone not so easily swayed.

It was Harran. He was weaponless and distraught.

“You have ruined us. We were thriving. And in a week, you undid everything we built here. People were happy.”

“Maybe you cured a bunch of maniacs. But maybe you didn’t. Maybe it was just an illusion,” I said.

“For many seasons we have prospered. The original founders are all gone. How can that be an illusion?”

“I’ve been doing this a long while,” I began.

“Doing what? Wrecking lives? Crippling people?”

“Yeah. Pretty much. One thing I know is that what a species does to survive isn’t necessarily who they really are. People will lick the boots of their most hated adversary if the only other option is extinction. You had a gun to their heads.”

“I did not! They elected me chieftain. I am merely one of the countless who came before. No one was forced to be here. We don’t have any ‘guns.’”

“Sure you do. This whole region is a gun. You said it yourself: Those who don’t join your village, and live by your rules, end up in the digestive tract of some animal or at the bottom of a cliff. Saying we won’t save you from certain death is the same as holding a gun to their heads. They had to play along to survive. Even a sociopath understands that.”

“These were rules we all agreed upon. And it worked.”

“I admit, it’s pretty damn impressive. I never would have thought it possible. But I think you only pulled it off due to constant threat. However, if they are truly happy, they won’t leave. If they are the joyful, contented lot you say, they will have no interest in going back to the place that exiled them in the first place.”

He stammered a bit.

“I hope you’re right, Harran. I hope you all figured out the cure. Not least of all, because I don’t want them back in my town—where I’ll have to worry every time I go to sleep or drink from a public water source. But if a hint of going back to the way things were causes it all to crumble, then it wasn’t actually a solution. This was just a big, fresh-air prison.”

“Did you…did you really do all those things you said?” he asked me.

“Yup. Every last one. Actually, I didn’t kill the big cat. It beat the living crap out of us. So you might want to head back to camp soon. Deviant Midnight Ripper is actually a pretty good name for it—an understatement if anything. But I wish you the best, Harran.”

“Thank you. I had such immense hope. And now it feels like failure and loss. But I do wish you the best as well, Pale Demon.”

I sighed and waved goodbye.





CHAPTER 14


Brief News Update



While Hank and company were busy making friends in the wilderness, the rest of the galaxy was coming to grips with the events of the Belvaille Massacre.

The Ank had been prevented from sending direct assistance to Belvaille and that had been the final insult. But the Ank were bankers, and they took measured, appropriate responses.

What they did was a series of downgrades, financial reallotments, credit exchanges, and about 14,000 other things that no one actually paid much attention to because they went on all the time.

But after all the Ank activities began to coalesce, the upshot was, money markets were left in turmoil. No one knew what was going on.

In fact, no one knew it had anything whatsoever to do with the Ank or the so-called Belvaille Massacre. Because no one knew what that was. Because the rest of the galaxy didn’t concern itself with happenings thousands of light-years away. There was plenty to be concerned about right in your own planetary neighborhood, thank you very much.

And when no one understood what was going on in the realm of finance, no one did anything. Because pan-galactic financiers aren’t the kind of people to go pulling random levers to see if that will help.

The giant engine of trade was slowing and stuttering. And entire empires were starting to panic.

And none of that had been what the Ank intended. They believed their actions would be obvious. But they also didn’t want to come out and thump their chests and say: “We’re the badasses responsible.” That wasn’t the kind of bankers they were.

And when your “empire” consisted of a single planet and one of your major embassies had just been eradicated, it made the Ank even more aware of how unwise it was to go around bragging.

Way out on the Colmarian Confederation planet of Belvaille, where the Ank had wanted to put the most pressure, the only hints that anything was wrong was a slight pullback in the number of trade shipments scheduled for the coming months.

But that was hardly worth noting.

It would take years or even decades for the full force of the Ank’s actions to reach Belvaille—which was a single city on a single planet in an enormous empire. Belvaille didn’t rely on trade, they relied on the fact they had a Thad Elon relic. And mortgage rates wouldn’t change the relic.

Even when the effects finally reached Belvaille, no one would have any idea what the cause was—even if the Ank called them up and explained it. Belvaille simply didn’t have those kinds of people and resources.

The general levels of unease, concern, volatility, instability, turmoil, and angst were ticking up slightly across the galaxy. Those, and millions of others, were metrics that the Ank closely monitored.

Unfortunately, no one in the Colmarian Confederation was calling or apologizing or was even aware that they had been directly targeted. They were just as clueless as everyone else. To their credit, the Colmarians were much more clueless than everyone else.

The Ank had basically begun a very slow, galaxy-wide economic meltdown for no reason. They had a reason, obviously. But it was not evident to those concerned.

Which was sort of like attempting to order coffee at a restaurant by setting fire to the roof of the building, while you were in outer space.

While the Ank knew every aspect of the Colmarian Confederation’s manufacturing, resources, shipping, trade, and such, they still didn’t fundamentally understand its character. It was self-evident that the Colmarians were insanely inefficient and wasteful. But the Ank didn’t realize that extended to everything.

The Colmarian Confederation misplaced entire solar systems and they not only didn’t care, they didn’t even notice. It could take a decade for some low-level astro-cartographer to be updating maps and suddenly go, “Huh. Weren’t there a dozen other solar systems around here before? Oh, well.” And that would be the sum total of Colmarian response.

There were Colmarians who knew of the Belvaille Massacre and cared. But the vast majority were on Belvaille itself and incapable of actually doing anything about it from a diplomatic standpoint. About 95% of the entire Confederation wouldn’t know what an Ank was if one was standing in front of them counting derivatives. Let alone that they had a royal family that had been killed while in the Confederation.

So the Ank were in a strange situation where they had directly set in motion one of the economic disturbances that they normally worked so diligently to prevent. And no one knew they did it or why.

There was a very large meeting of the most esteemed Bank Lords, Fiscal Prognosticators, August Auditors, and Exalted Executors of the Ank empire to address the issue. The conference was largely conducted over view screens, because everyone was a little paranoid about gathering leaders in one location after Belvaille.

“Well, my treasured colleagues,” the Clear Honorable Bank Lord Grade 17.8 of the Seventh Participate began, “that didn’t work.”





CHAPTER 15


Odd Coupling



Between Hank, MTB, and Garm, you had three of the most knowledgeable people about the workings of Lower Belvaille. Their contacts and expertise spanned nearly every discipline in the region.

But compared with Rendrae, they were practically outsiders.

The publisher, editor, reporter, etc., of The News: More Truthful Than the Truth, was peculiar even by Belvaille standards—which was saying a lot. The man possessed unique talents, skills, biological quirks, and even mild mutations that allowed him to be the premier newscaster of the city.

MTB had teased Rendrae that his was the only news outlet on Belvaille. But there were thousands of reporters based in the city. They covered Upper Belvaille, the expatriate community who had come to deal with it, and the political machinations surrounding the relic. They were essentially foreign correspondents.

If they ever mentioned much of Belvaille at all—that is, the Lower City—they might make some vague reference to it being shadowy, or poorly governed, or wantonly criminal. Because they were reporting for an audience back home, and that audience didn’t give a damn how many potholes there were on the streets of a city, in another empire, that they would never, ever visit.

Rendrae covered about half the city’s activities. Specifically, the criminal aspects.

Rendrae loved crime. Adored everything about it like he was the sappiest of romantics. But not everyone was cut out to be a criminal—just like not everyone was cut out to be any profession.

Rendrae had always been a reporter and he was insanely good at it. The other news outlets realized how talented he was and many had offered him jobs.

But Rendrae hated…them. Whoever them were. Anyone imposing any sorts of rules. Which was part of why he glorified criminals so much, because they were not only ignoring them, they were active antagonists.

And big news outlets were a them. Government was a them. Rendrae wanted nothing to do with such entities, regardless of money. So those other news agencies stopped trying to hire him and they would merely cite—or copy—Rendrae’s work when they needed any local reporting.

No use trying to beat the best.

The criminals of the city liked Rendrae. They pretended they didn’t. They mocked the round, green man and his absurd hats. But Rendrae was a people person far beyond merely possessing social skills. In addition, everyone enjoyed respect and having their efforts celebrated.

The first time some crook saw his name in a headline…wow! If only his parents and parole officers could see him now. In a lot of cases, Rendrae was the only source of encouragement that these miscreants had received in their entire, maladjusted lives.

Over the centuries, there had been many attempts at competing with Rendrae. Not only from big foreign press, but individuals. They saw how—covertly—popular Rendrae was, so they decided to try and unseat him.

And every one of those budding challengers either quietly failed or was unquietly murdered.

Because it took a special kind of person to put a camera on a criminal engaged in crime and not end up part of the work.

The breadth of Rendrae’s news sources and his warehouse of information were truly staggering. He knew secrets that no one dreamed were public. He could piece together the most intimate details based on scattered inuendo from 10,000 species over the course of decades. He simply knew everything about everyone.

But he never wrote about such private things because that wasn’t journalism. And Rendrae took his profession very seriously.

Hank and company were currently out in the wilderness. Completely off the grid. Untrackable and untraceable. To those trying to find them, it was as if they had suddenly and completely vanished. Which was nearly an unthinkable feat in a modern society.

However, a recent article in The News had come to the attention of various foreign assassins, militaries, and local gangs. It was pretty clear that the last person to see and interact with those protecting the Ank royal was a correspondent at a non-descript local outlet. Therefore, it was not unreasonable to assume that the reporter knew where the Ank was—or at least where it had recently gone.

Rendrae became aware that there were about a half dozen groups that wanted to speak to him. And by “speak,” the journalist understood that they wished to learn everything he knew and were more than willing to torture him to find out.

Rendrae would not reveal such information. He wouldn’t reveal it under torture or drugs or hypnosis or any ability or tool available to anyone in the galaxy. But no one knew that. And if he told them, they wouldn’t believe him, because that was just the kind of thing that prospective torturees would lie about to avoid their suffering.

Rendrae had suddenly become the story—a situation he abhorred.

But if those groups were having a tough time following the sort-of-expert skills of Hank and MTB and Fate, they had no hope of dealing with Rendrae. None of the groups had even made overt attempts to find or contact the man and he was already on to them.

That’s how good of a reporter Rendrae was. He knew what they knew before they even knew that they knew it.

However, Rendrae wasn’t in the clear just because he was aware of what was going on. The man had no combat abilities whatsoever. He might be tolerated by the criminal world, but they weren’t willing to stand up in his defense—especially against professional assassins.

Rendrae was not particularly good with finances—he considered such things grubby them work and beneath the dignity of a dedicated journalist. Being the sole proprietor, reporter, everything of a news outlet wasn’t easy or cheap or especially profitable. Therefore, he had very little money or assets that he could now tap in order to defend himself.

While Rendrae was not above risking injury to do his reporting, this wasn’t a gang skirmish or shoplifting-gone-wrong. There was no value—or happy conclusion—to the reporter confronting those who were searching for baby Sal.

Once Rendrae uncovered that he was about to be personally targeted, he immediately looked for a place to hide.



Garm’s initial plan of getting Sal to safety was not going as well as she hoped.

She first had to contact the Ank. And not just any Ank, but ones who could take possession of the royal baby and who weren’t involved in the original assassination to begin with.

That seemed like a simple concept to explore. But everyone was trying to contact the bankers of the galaxy. You know, to bank. And there weren’t enough Ank to go around.

If you constructed a line of individuals who were trying to reach an Ank representative, it would stretch from Belvaille to the Ank planet itself—without the use of Portals. And the people in the line would be packed so closely together that, in many cultures, they would be considered married.

And those other entities waiting to speak to the Ank were often very important figures—as far as the bankers were concerned. They were wealthy. They required robust financial services. They had established means of contacting the Ank. And yet they were still waiting.

Although Garm was important in the Lower City, she was not at all important in the wider galaxy. And if she led off her inquiry stating that she was the official from Belvaille who had been in charge of security when the Ank royal family was murdered, that would be an excellent method of ensuring she never spoke to an Ank again.

So Garm simply had no easy way to get in touch with the Ank to try and arrange a rendezvous to get Sal to safety.

But Garm hated doing nothing. And waiting for her dozen probes and contacts and inquests to return results, was doing nothing in her mind.

Since she couldn’t make any headway in that space, she decided to think about the other issues facing her.

Even if she managed to speak with the Ank, if she vetted them, and were certain they were legitimate, making the actual delivery would still be tremendously difficult.

There were a lot of groups who wanted that child dead. And they could shoot guns, plant bombs, lob missiles, and, most disturbingly, the Messahn battlesuit could turn invisible and teleport.

How do you protect an infant from all that when you have to transfer it to a spaceship? Spaceships were not subtle things. When they moved around, they had to pass through Portals, and get clearance, and communicate with other ships and planets. All those interactions would be monitored by any semi-capable assassin.

Garm did not like dealing with unknown variables. That was gambling. And gambling with lives and futures was a great way of losing both.

So Garm gathered what she knew and went off to try and learn more.



“Is there some sign on my door inviting people to come pester me?” Delovoa asked Garm, clearly irritated by her presence.

After answering the door, he had reluctantly led her into one of his many workspaces. It was cluttered with all sorts of hazardous-looking devices and half-devices.

“Yes, there’s a sign on your building. A giant, glowing hologram that proclaims this is Delovoa’s Dream Factory,” she replied. She wasn’t certain if Delovoa honestly didn’t know he had a sign on his door.

“When I had that put up, I was pretty certain no one in the city could read. I bet one of the few literate people was showing off and told others what it said and now everyone knows,” he replied, reflecting on the circumstances.

“I’m not…” Garm began, but she was at a loss how to deal with this man. He was so damn strange.

“I do not appreciate being disturbed when I’m on the brink of the most important scientific breakthrough of the last thousand years,” he continued.

Garm stared at him. Not for any tangible reason other than because he was fascinatingly hideous. His brain, under the clear dome of his skullcap, was actually pressing against the side of the glass in one region. Garm didn’t know much about brains, but that didn’t seem healthy.

Delovoa took her rapt attention—along with her absent look of disgust—as indication he should launch into his sales pitch.

“Imagine you want to kill someone—really, really want to kill someone. But you’re not sure who. No idea. For instance, maybe you don’t leave the house very often. Or maybe you’re completely new to town and you don’t know where people you might kill normally congregate. So you want to kill someone, but you don’t want to go through the hassle of choosing. Behold!” Delovoa said, pulling the tarp off a pile of junk that looked identical to every other pile of junk in the room. “I call it, ‘Kill Murder Kill 3.0.’ There was no first or second version, that’s just clever marketing on my part.”

“Uh,” Garm said. She couldn’t tell if the man was joking or not. “So I need you to look at some software.”

“You haven’t even seen a demonstration of Murder Death Kill 4.0,” he protested.

“No need. If you can help me out with this software, I might buy two units.”

“Buy? You think I’m some cheap huckster looking to score cash? I’m not going to sell this,” he said, offended.

“Even better. Can you take a moment to go over the code on this data cube?”

“No. I don’t feel like it. And I frankly don’t enjoy the parade of idiots who have been…parading to my door lately.”

“Look, I’m not as nice as Hank. He has to put up with you because, besides me, you’re the one person he knows who is capable of tying his own shoes. But I have teams of scientists on my payroll,” Garm said, losing her patience.

“You do? Are those scientists hidden in the back pocket of those frightfully tight and frightfully disgusting pants? Because I’m pretty sure I’m the only scientist here. And, as a scientist, I have to tell you that not only is your left cheekbone one millimeter higher than your right, but you are entirely lacking in personal style—scientifically speaking.”

Two flicks of the wrist and Garm had stashed the data cube and was now holding a stiletto in each hand. She took a step forward.

Delovoa had a remote control with a glowing red button in his hand.

“And what’s that do?” she asked, mockingly. “Is that the switch for Stab Slash Stab Punch 9.0?”

“What an absurd name for an invention. As for what this does…who knows?”

Anyone else, literally anyone else in the entire city, and that would be a ridiculous threat. But not only was Delovoa constantly causing tremendous “accidental” destruction, it was entirely plausible that he didn’t know what the remote control was for.

Garm put the blades away.

“Delovoa. I just need your help. It’s about Hank and what is going on with the Ank embassy when all the—” she began.

But Delovoa produced a ferocious, exaggerated, fake yawn.

“Oh, man. That was a really boring story. If you ever lose your job as an ugly pants model you can fall back on your skills as a forced sleep inducer,” he said.

“Garm! I expected you were following me,” Rendrae said, standing just beyond the doorway to one of the adjacent workshops.

“Oh, great. Now everyone is here. Basket Head, meet Sexy Slacks—which I don’t need to tell you is a sarcastic name.”

Rendrae was indeed wearing a hat that resembled an upturned, woven basket.

“Why would I be following you?” Garm asked, confused. Though she was honestly thankful for the distraction. Dealing with Delovoa was exhausting.

“Who can predict your devious machinations?” Rendrae asked, squeezing through the doorway to join them. He knocked aside some contraptions on the floor in his haste.

“Careful. There’s at least one landmine in here somewhere,” Delovoa said absently.

Garm and Rendrae both turned to the crazy man.

“What?” Garm asked.

“Or it might be the other room. There’s some landmines around here for sure.”

“I’ve been traversing these rooms for two hours and you made no mention of such perils,” Rendrae accused.

“Yes, I did. I said don’t touch anything.”

“And you believed I would be aware that included the floor?” Rendrae asked.

“I can’t be expected to talk down to every moron’s level. I’m busy inventing a better tomorrow—one death at a time. You know, that would be a good sign to have on my door. But it would take a century for word-of-mouth to get the meaning around. If only people in this city could read,” Delovoa mused to himself.

“They are quite literate,” Rendrae objected. “There are legions of learned individuals and engineers seeking to dismantle the Upper City. And they welcome good reporting.”

“I keep hearing legends of all these other scientists in Belvaille, but for some reason everyone is here bothering me.”

“I cannot speak for that one,” Rendrae said, nodding to Garm. “If I had known she would be present, I would have refrained from ever venturing here.”

“Oh, good. I can just hang an inflatable Garm on my door like a scarecrow. But where would I get the pants? Obviously, the tailor that originally made those was murdered by the hordes of innocent bystanders he caused to go blind. Their vengeance must have been a painful, groping affair.”

Garm sighed.

“Can you examine the code on this data cube?” she repeated.

“Careful, or you will be implicated in her schemes. I recommend you do not handle any gifts from Garm,” Rendrae warned.

“Does she have cooties?”

“I am not familiar with that term but it wouldn’t surprise me,” Rendrae said.

“It’s code for the Messahn battlesuit,” Garm said.

“Ooh!” Delovoa hummed, suddenly interested.

He tried to snatch the small data cube from her hand and she suddenly pulled it away. Delovoa spun and fell to the floor with a crash and scrape, the ground being covered with gadgets.

“Sorry,” Garm said. “Instincts.”

Delovoa slowly picked himself up and hefted a small device he noticed on the ground.

“Here, hold this,” Delovoa said, handing Rendrae the device.

The man reluctantly accepted it.

“What is it?”

“Landmine,” Delovoa replied casually.

Delovoa took possession of the data cube and synched it with his tele. It projected a rendering of the text into the air in front of him, extending about two feet in height.

Rendrae stared in horror at the contraption he had been given. Red and blue lights were on the surface, and hundreds of small spikes protruded from the top to ensure maximum destruction upon detonation—and because it looked cool.

Garm also stared at the device in horror, instantly forgetting the data cube and her purpose here.

“Ick,” Delovoa said. “This code is…ancient.”

“Yeah. So is the battlesuit,” Garm replied, being drawn back to the issue. “Is that a live explosive device? Maybe you should deactivate it?”

“I totally agree with that,” Rendrae said nervously.

“What? Why? Just don’t drop it,” Delovoa said, as he continued to peruse the software. “Or shake it. It might be balance sensitive as well. So don’t tilt it. Or change the humidity. So breathe to the side.”

Rendrae’s eyes were wide as he slowly turned his head and exhaled away from the landmine.

“You want to go into a different room to view that more comfortably? After you deactivate the landmine?” Garm suggested.

“That’s a good idea,” Delovoa said.

He turned off the data cube and put it in his pocket. He then walked to Rendrae and took possession of the bomb. Rendrae’s arms couldn’t reach very far past his round torso and he didn’t have much of a neck to pull back. But he did as much as he physically could to distance himself from the device.

“Yah!” the scientist screamed, shaking the landmine vigorously.

Garm crouched, turned, and covered her head. Rendrae winced.

“I was only kidding. This is just a vacuum pump. Well, part of one. Completely inoffensive.”

He threw the gizmo across the room. It hit the far wall and landed on the floor. An explosion erupted. While it was bright and loud, it did nothing more than send a harmless shower of plastic, wires, and junk everywhere.

“Oh. There was the landmine,” Delovoa said.



They went to another room that was free from explosives, toxins, and radiation. Though it took Delovoa ten minutes to find such a place within his home.

“So what are you doing here?” Garm asked Rendrae as Delovoa reviewed the data cube.

“Nothing,” the reporter said cagily.

“Same as everyone else. It seems that my house was listed on some international compendium of hide-and-seek locations so now anyone looking to lay low comes here first,” Delovoa said.

“Why are you—oh! You wrote that article. So now every assassin who can’t find the last Ank royal on Belvaille is coming to you,” Garm stated.

“And what of it? We wouldn’t be in this situation if you hadn’t murdered the admiral’s family,” Rendrae replied.

“Why would I kill his family?”

“Who knows why you undertake such things?”

“No, seriously. You’re a smart guy, Rendrae. Why would a fleet admiral who deployed with an armed battalion, and was expecting danger, bring along his family? Does that make sense to you? A fleet admiral is tooling around the galaxy, putting down insurrections, bombarding planets, and he has his wife and kids standing next to him?” Garm asked.

“You’re saying you didn’t kill Senior Admiral Tooper?” he asked.

“No. I killed Secondary Vice Admiral Attaché of the Auxiliary Fourth Institution of Provisional Subarmaments. His name was Tapper. And he was either partially responsible for the Belvaille Massacre or was going to use it to exert military influence here on Belvaille. In any case, he was going to murder Sal—after murdering me. I had the choice of killing him or being killed, and I do not regret my selection,” she said.

“Belvaille Massacre is such a misleading title,” Rendrae stated, avoiding the rest of Garm’s details. He knew his reporting on government and military operations was not tremendously good. That was not his area of specialty.

“I have no idea why you make up all these stories about me. But if you want to write something, why not write about Tapper? He was operating illegally and endangering the city you clearly love,” Garm suggested.

“Because the only one who reads about the Colmarian Navy is the Colmarian Navy. And I would only get a few stories published before they incarcerated me. But if you knew he was so troublesome, why did you bring them here in the first place?”

“I can’t bring an admiral—or vice admiral—anywhere. You know what I do, Rendrae. You’ve written about it a thousand times. I’m not going to ask the Navy, who I don’t control, to come visit. It would jeopardize me and my operations at least as much as anyone else,” she said.

“Then I reflect your inquiry and pose the same question to you: why are you here at Delovoa’s?”

“Because I’m totally screwed. The embassy of one of the most important empires got massacred—or wiped out, or whatever—while I was head of security. The only way I can save my ass is if I can get Sal out of here. And I can’t see how that’s possible while there are a million assassins after him or her. Especially since one of them can teleport,” she said. “Delovoa. Can you figure out a way to beat that battlesuit looking at the code?”

“Um. This is thirty-two million lines of code written in a language that hasn’t been used in 30,000 years. I need to look at more than the first few pages. Besides, I’m a scientist, geneticist, physicist, and engineer. I’m not a computer programmer.”

“Aren’t they similar disciplines?” Rendrae asked.

“No. Programmers are nerds,” Delovoa said distastefully.

“Maybe you could just run a search on the code? Look for relevant concepts. Like how we can fight it,” Garm proposed, trying to be helpful.

“There are online compendiums that also provide archival references,” Rendrae added.

Delovoa suddenly went alert. His eyes darted around rapidly.

“Shh. Did you hear that?” the scientist asked.

“What? Did someone trip your alarms?” Garm asked.

“Quiet! Listen.”

Garm slowly took out two blades. Not the stilettos from earlier, these were more general purpose. She readied herself and listened.

The home had the usual urban noises, plus a lot more from Delovoa’s many machines.

“I don’t hear anything,” Rendrae whispered after a moment.

“Yes, exactly. That’s the sound of me not asking two idiots for technical advice,” Delovoa replied.

They all relaxed and Garm, reluctantly, put away her knives.

“You know,” she began, “we’ve got a lot of capabilities here. In this room. Rendrae, you have connections all over the city. Probably way more than I do. And I have an in with all the official channels as well as Quadrad training. And Delovoa has a huge collection of landmines.”

“What are you suggesting?” Rendrae asked.

“I’m saying our problems are aligned. You want to not be murdered by assassins,” she began.

“That is affirmative,” Rendrae said uneasily.

“And I want the assassins out of the way so I can get Sal to safety and resume my normal life. And, you know, there’s Delovoa.”

“Yes. What about me?” the non-nerd asked. “I see no reason to bother with any of this. And before you talk money or threats or front page or basket hats with revolting pants, none of that is of any interest to me.”

“One of the assassin groups is the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6%,” Rendrae said.

“They’ve taken the contract? How do you know?” Garm asked.

“Journalistic integrity.”

“And why would I care about 6% of ammonia?” Delovoa asked.

“They are Colmarians, but cybernetic constructs. Most of their bodies are now mechanical. I felt it might be tempting to evaluate a competitor’s work,” Rendrae added.

“Not to mention the Messahn battlesuit. The code of which you now hold in your hands. Imagine getting the whole armor,” Garm added.

“Seems unlikely,” Delovoa countered.

“Okay. If you help us, you’ll also be doing Hank a huge service. We’re only in danger because they’re trying to get to him and Sal,” Garm said.

“So?”

“So…he has described you as his best friend,” Garm said, wondering if there was anything at all Delovoa cared about.

“He might be my only friend,” Delovoa stated blandly. “At least the only friend I haven’t borrowed some organs or limbs from. But that doesn’t mean I’m looking forward to sharing a suicide pact with him.”

“It would be of tremendous benefit to the city to have these forces dissipated and removed. They are not part of the heroic criminal element of the Lower City, they are interlopers. Additionally, you would be coming to the aid of an innocent child,” Rendrae said.

“I don’t know. It just feels so…” Delovoa began, searching for the right word.

“Jeopardous?” Rendrae suggested.

“No.”

“Difficult?” Garm asked.

“No. More like…nice,” Delovoa said, crinkling his nose. “Like, ‘Oh, let’s go save the city and a baby and my one and only friend.’ I have a reputation, too. If I do this, we have to at least vandalize some people or irradiate some neighborhoods. Just to balance it out.”





CHAPTER 16


The Sting



Centurion Advocate Uso-Reese marched to the hotel and marched into the lobby. He had the poise, posture, and bearing of a career soldier—because that’s what he was. The only thing unusual or non-military about him was his odd choice of clothes. It was as if he had seen a picture of a businessman a few decades ago, and hastily went out and bought some clothes that matched his fuzzy recollections. Which was exactly what happened.

He approached the front desk and was disheartened to see an actual person there. He had hoped to check into the hotel without interacting with anyone. Without witnesses. But Belvaille handled a lot of tourists from across the galaxy, and dealing with so many species often required a sentient individual—or three—to ensure things went smoothly.

“Good morning—afternoon—I, myself, would like to…I have a room here…I think,” Uso-Reese stumbled.

“Afternoon,” the clerk replied. “Name, please.”

“Ballo. Balo, uh, Shamton.”

“He doesn’t know his own fake name,” Rendrae observed.

Garm, Delovoa, and the reporter were viewing the antics of Uso-Reese far away in the scientist’s home. Delovoa had a large computer console equipped with hundreds of screens of various sizes and shapes.

The gang had finally, reluctantly, agreed to work together. To start, they drew up a list of the various assassins and persons of interest they needed to monitor. Garm had fingered Uso-Reese as someone worth watching.

Rendrae then had a series of convoluted, “journalistic integrity” contacts indicate that Uso-Reese had booked a hotel. Or at least his expense account had, under an assumed name.

Garm used her influence to get the hotel to place Uso-Reese in a specific room and notify her of his presence. The hotel jumped at the chance to assist her. The Adjunct Overwatch would owe them a favor! Running a business the size and complexity of a hotel meant having to deal with all sorts of red tape and city officials. And they all, in some way, worked for Garm.

Of course, Garm wasn’t sure she would be Adjunct Overwatch for much longer. So she was happy to give out any sort of promissory favors considering she might be in jail or dead fairly soon and therefore not be in a position to pay them back.

Delovoa had cameras everywhere. He had four different appliances watching Uso-Reese right now.

“He doesn’t look like much of an assassin,” Delovoa stated. “He can’t even coordinate his clothes. He’s wearing a dinner jacket with pajama pants.”

“Yeah. I’m not sure if he’s an assassin or not. But he has a barracks and food at Slip Splash Fun Land. There’s no reason he should be using a local hotel,” Garm said, staring at the screens.

“Could simply be a romantic liaison,” Rendrae suggested.

“The vice admiral is dead. This guy is in charge—temporarily. He doesn’t need to sneak around. This is suspicious,” Garm replied.

Uso-Reese moved from the lobby and the group could talk more readily since they didn’t have any cameras on him at the moment.

“Is he an admiral as well?” Rendrae asked.

“No. He’s a nobody. But he’s in command of Tapper’s fleet.”

“How does a nobody, who appears clueless and tasteless, take over from a vice admiral?” Delovoa asked.

“Because, for whatever reason, he didn’t tell anyone Tapper was dead. I looked it up,” she said.

“It seems improbable that the Navy could not know an admiral is deceased. That is pertinent information, isn’t it?” Rendrae asked.

“You’ve heard the expression, ‘not in every closet?’” Garm asked.

“Yes. It means not very common. I also use, ‘not in every suitcase,’ since closet can be a euphemism for funerary coffin in some cultures,” Rendrae stated.

“Well, there’s a vice admiral in every closet—or suitcase. The Navy is the second-largest employer in the galaxy. The only organization that’s bigger is the greater Colmarian government. It could take them weeks to discover a secondary vice admiral attaché had died. That is, if the proper procedures aren’t followed. And in this case, they were not.”

“How many soldiers does he have managerial oversight of?” Rendrae asked.

“I believe somewhere around 243 million.”

“What?” Delovoa and Rendrae asked in shock. They were seriously reconsidering eavesdropping on this so-called nobody.

“Relax. They’re spread across entire sectors. The only soldiers that matter are down here, squatting in a water park. But even so, there’s somewhere between five and ten thousand of them.”

“Ships are starting to come for the summit. Early arrivals,” Rendrae began. “Couldn’t we use all this traffic to move Sal to safety? Handfuls of assassins couldn’t possibly investigate so many spaceships. And when Sal is gone, no one will be after us.”

“Too risky. The assassins don’t have to search all those ships, they simply have to be in touch with the people who watch them as part of their jobs. Spaceships, despite being ubiquitous, are not mundane tools. Any time one moves around, I figure a thousand people are notified. Actually, Delovoa, you built a lot of those systems, right? How many people are keeping track of ships as they travel?” Garm asked.

“Depends on how far they’re coming from and what empire they represent. Belvaille is fielding ships from across the galaxy. When one goes through a Portal, I would guess about a million people are tracking that.”

“Wow,” Garm said.

“They have to. There’s far more ships than Portals, so you have a queue to use them. And everyone wants to know what passes through. Military people want to know—especially from other empires. Trade and economics people want to know. Civil planners and business people want to know. There’s big money any time a ship uses a Portal because they’re almost always huge ships with expensive cargo. It’s not as if some little two-seater is going for a joyride through a Portal. They can’t,” he said.

“I thought these hotels had biometric scans. Why was Uso-Reese permitted to give a false identity?” Rendrae asked.

“That’s a misconception. Yes, some of the posh hotels have sophisticated scanners—the ones housing VIPs. Some government installations as well. But this is just a regular business. What are they going to scan? If someone is a criminal? That would exclude half the city. They don’t care what anyone calls themself, they only want to get paid,” she said.

“Let’s check the room,” Rendrae suggested.

Delovoa modified the controls to show the cameras in the room. Uso-Reese was already there.

“For a fleet commander, he appears quite nervous,” Rendrae said.

“Yeah, he does,” Garm agreed.

“He didn’t even flush the toilet,” Delovoa said, pointing at one of the cameras.

The other two ignored the scientist. They had to do that a lot.

Uso-Reese began to set up some equipment.

“Do we have audio in there?” Garm asked.

“Audio. Infrared. Ultraviolet. Laser depth array at three-millimeter accuracy. Subsonic vibration. X-ray. Gamma. But those last two don’t do a whole lot other than promote cancer,” Delovoa explained.

“Turn on the audio,” Garm said.

“He’s…humming. I don’t recognize the tune,” Rendrae said.

“I do. It’s a Navy cadet cadence. Really odd that anyone would be humming it for pleasure,” she said.

“Test. Test,” Uso-Reese said, practicing with his equipment. He then rattled off a bunch of expressions in different intonations like he was trying out characters. “Hi. Hello. Greetings, friends. Heya. Hello, who are you? Hi. So, we doing this? Hey, we…hey. Hey. Hey. We gonna…are we…what’s…”

“He’s an amateur,” Garm said.

“Do you think he’s worth viewing? Or should we try and locate some of the other parties?” Rendrae asked.

“Yeah, he’s worth it. We don’t know what he’s an amateur about. He still has a sizeable military force at his disposal, no matter how inexperienced he is. But after this, I think we should try and focus on the battlesuit,” Garm said.

“I told you, I can’t examine that code in the short time we need it. If I read it straight through like a really boring manual, it would still take me weeks to finish it. Even if I didn’t stop to eat or sleep or build sharks.”

“Shouldn’t we get in touch with Hank to see if Sal is even safe? None of this matters if he’s botched things already,” Rendrae suggested.

“We have to trust they’ll do their part. The more we contact them, the more chances there are of someone intercepting that or figuring out what they’re up to,” Garm said.

“He’s starting,” Delovoa announced.

“Can you zoom in on his equipment on the table?” Garm asked.

Delovoa did so.

“That’s an encrypted transmitter. Navy. Very tightly controlled,” she said.

“What does it do?” Rendrae asked.

“Kind of like a big tele. But only for communications,” Delovoa answered.

“I suppose he wants to contact his military superiors however many light-years away,” Rendrae suggested.

“No. Doesn’t make sense. He has way better things at the water park. And even using those, they would bounce a signal up to the Navy ships in orbit, which are even more capable. What he’s got there is just a portable device. And there’s no reason to check into a hotel to use it. Something else is going on,” she said.

A hologram appeared above the transmitter, showing the upper body of someone who was wearing a mask.

“You wished to speak to us?” the voice, vaguely masculine in nature, asked.

“I am Centurion Advocate Uso-Reese of the Colmarian Navy. I am speaking to you from Belvaille.”

“And how does that interest us?”

“If you want the last Ank royal eliminated, I’m the person you need to deal with.”

“Why do you say that?”

“Because I’m not alone. I have with me the Auxiliary Fourth Institution of Provisional Subarmaments. That’s 15,338 soldiers within the city, another 73,000 in orbit, and another couple million within two jumps of here. No one is getting in or out without my say. And that child will live—or not—based on my orders,” he stated.

“Thad Elon,” Rendrae breathed, shocked at the scope of corruption within the empire. It was far worse than the usual scams and incompetence he was familiar with. This was the first time the reporter had actually seen an important official engaged in something not only entirely illegal, but perfectly contrary to his actual responsibilities—like a Health Minister going around poisoning people.

“Why do you believe we have any interest in the Ank?” the voice asked.

“Let’s not be cute. We’re wasting time. This is a secure installation and a military channel. No one can possibly be listening in,” Uso-Reese said.

The group exchanged nervous glances.

“Do you know the location of the target?” the voice asked.

“I want to know if I deliver, will you pay up? Because if we can’t work out a deal, right now, there are plenty who will gladly compensate for the safe return of the child. And I’m capable of securing the path with 250 million soldiers and their warships.”

“How do we know these things? It is unusual the Colmarian Navy would take an interest in this. And what makes you believe you can succeed? You could be anyone.”

“Not anyone has worked on the Heizforf Distortion Field. That was what we used to knock out the Galdorians last year on Belt 0098. Or the Updroist Planet Fall two years before that. I’ve done this sort of thing before. A lot, actually. You just never hear about it.”

Garm pointed at the screen and practically hopped back and forth on her feet.

“That was a military secret! He just gave out like three top-secret details to a random person wearing a face scarf. That’s life in prison—if he’s lucky,” she said.

“If you can eliminate the target, and provide proof, we will gladly remit the balance of the contract,” the voice said.

“I want you to call off anyone else. I’m here in force. I don’t want anyone tripping me up,” Uso-Reese said.

“That is not possible. We are not in communication,” the voice began.

“And it’s just not done. You don’t cancel contracts,” Garm said, disgusted.

“And that conduct is unacceptable. A contract, once proffered, cannot be rescinded,” the voice continued.

“Who else is down here?” Uso-Reese asked.

“That information is confidential. Just as your involvement is equally private.”

That didn’t please the centurion advocate, but he seemed to understand it.

“Alright. Well, you had best be ready to pay up the moment I’m done. Because this could put me in a bad situation. Are we clear on that?”

“This guy is a total novice. He’s doing everything wrong,” Garm said.

“And a traitor,” Rendrae added.

“And his wardrobe is a tetradic color scheme of coral, violet, teal, and chartreuse.”

Rendrae looked at the scientist so Delovoa felt he should go on.

“And see? It’s all breaking up and making a mess. This is why you should always flush the toilet,” Delovoa added, flipping channels.

“Go back!” Garm said.

“Remove the target and payment will be promptly transferred. But you must provide proof of your involvement,” the voice said.

“It’ll be done. Uso-Reese out,” the centurion advocate said, terminating the call.

The group continued to watch the Navy man as he began to pack up his things.

“Who do you think he was speaking with?” Rendrae asked.

“Doesn’t matter.”

“It seems rather significant. They are ultimately responsible for all of this,” the reporter replied.

“If it was someone in the Ank family, or across the galaxy, or your sweet Aunt Marjafina, what are you going to do about it? Take them to court? Send a nasty letter? Fly out and kill them? Even if those people were eliminated, no one else would know. There’s a contract on the royal child. We need to get Sal away. But we can’t do that with infinity assassins—and now soldiers—lining up to take shots,” she said.

“This guy is in the bathroom yet again. He is literally full of crap,” Delovoa commented.

“So what do we do to him?” Rendrae asked.

“Not sure we can do anything,” Garm replied.

“You murdered a vice admiral, but you’re scared of this so-called ‘nobody’?”

“I didn’t go searching for that opportunity. I killed Tapper because I was stuck in a car with him and they were driving me out to a remote spot so they could slay me with no eyewitnesses,” she said.

“Oh.”

“You’ve seen how the military works. You kill one, there’s another right behind to pick up the baton. I can’t say if Uso-Reese is working alone. He seems like he is. But even if he was killed, it’s not as if the soldiers in the water park would simply vanish. Higher-ups might even start wondering why all their officers on Belvaille are being murdered and then do exactly what Tapper had envisioned and place us under martial law.”

“He didn’t flush again.”



The Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% had arrived on Belvaille several days earlier.

They were not difficult to spot. They looked like walking junkyards. They had no eyes, or mouths, or heads, or anything discernably biological at all. The remnants of life were buried deep within. Some even belched smoke from the engines situated about their mechanical bodies.

They were also entirely non-standard. No two were alike. The only commonality was they were large, ugly, and ponderous. Most were about the size of a compact car that was sitting upright.

Fear of robots was a fairly pervasive attitude in the city. This was annoying to the members of the Dead. It’s not that they were afraid of fighting or dying, it’s just that they didn’t want to do either under false pretenses. So they were all equipped with official documentation, in the form of holograms, written memos, and audio, that proved they were Colmarians.

They were essentially classified as medical victims housed in walking, clanking iron lungs.

The Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% were a very peculiar bunch. Even when you learned what they were, it was easy to assume they were like the Messahn battlesuit, with minds housed inside of hi-tech battle gear. But they were nothing like that.

They were a collection of robust mining and medical gear that had been patched and fused together to try and save the dying miners. It had been hoped that once they reached civilization, they could be restored.

But they were not saved and would never be saved.

The Dead were best described as mechanical. There were lots of gears and motors and pistons about their haphazard bodies.

But what also differentiated them from the advanced models was how the changes had affected the biology inside. All these machines slapped together weren’t simple, even if they appeared so. They had computer systems. They were not complex routines like Fate or the battlesuit. But they weren’t manually operated either.

And since the Dead could be composed of ten or fifty or a hundred machines all tied together to make one unit, the mind inside had to control them. So all those simplistic computer systems were directly managed by the brain of the host. It wasn’t just that the host operated the machines, they were symbiotic.

A strange thing started to happen almost immediately.

All the gear used to build the Dead were tools of one kind or another. Tools for mining asteroids. Tools for curing injuries. Tools.

And no tool, designed to be an actual tool, willingly destroyed itself or allowed itself to be destroyed. That would not be a very useful tool.

For instance, if a mining drill detected it was running at too high an RPM or was upside down or overheating, it gave warnings or modified its parameters or even shut down. If it didn’t, no one would buy that drill again because it was unreliable and broke all the time.

The Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% had been terribly unhappy with their existence within their life-saving machines. Some of the earliest models had killed themselves to escape their predicaments. But as time went on, they started to become more and more like their machines. Because the basic computer systems they were plugged into had begun to limit the very minds they were connected with.

The Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% were now incapable of self-destruction. Tools didn’t commit suicide. They had completely lost those instincts and thought processes.

It was not an unusual concept. There were many advanced species that had evolved—hundreds of millions of years ago—from flying creatures. But those modern citizens didn’t go around flapping their arms. Because they were no longer avian. Evolution had taken their wings eons ago. So they had no instincts or concept of flying.

Even if you could put the brain of a bird into a ground-mammal body, after a relatively short period spent falling down, that bird brain would stop attempting to fly. It would lose that instinct altogether because it was limited by its new form.

The Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% were Colmarians who had been turned into machines. They did not like their existences, in a vague sense, but they would not do anything directly about it.

What they did was take every mercenary assignment, every assassination, every armed response that they came across. As tools, they felt compelled to perform jobs—to be productive. And the more dangerous the job, the better.

There had been almost 2,500 souls on the original asteroid mining colony. Of those, only 400 made it off alive due to hasty cybernetic modification.

As of a century ago, there had been 143 remaining Dead of Nova Ammonium 6%. There were now only about three dozen left. But these last ones were the most robust, persistent, and fault tolerant of their kind.

Very effective tools.

And all of them were in the Under City of Belvaille with the goal of finding an Ank child and killing it.

If they succeeded, good.

If they died in the attempt, good.



Garm, Delovoa, and Rendrae were monitoring the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% on the scientist’s ubiquitous cameras. At the moment, four of them were grouped up and walking around the city.

“Those things are chasing us?” Rendrae asked, concerned.

“They’re after Sal. But Sal is somewhere on the planet and you conveniently indicated in your newspaper that you were the last known contact. And it’s also been hinted that I am helping protect the child.”

“Where are these hints coming from?” the journalist asked.

“It’s just assassin talk. I spoke with my Quadrad sisters.”

“How do they know? Are Quadrad going to come kill us, too?”

“No. Whoever originated the contract probably got in touch with some Quadrad to see if they were interested. Regardless, we’re both in danger. If not directly, then due to vigorous interrogation methods,” she said.

“I’m not in danger. Except from associating with you hooligans,” Delovoa said. He was reviewing all his scans and devices to try and gain a better understanding of the cyborgs.

“Do they have any weaknesses?” Garm asked.

“They’re built from asteroid mining equipment. The amount of high explosives needed to destroy them would also knock down any adjacent buildings. And whenever I do that, everyone gets upset,” he said. “I can’t even tell they’re biological. They might be entirely robotic. We have to take their word for it they’re still Colmarians.”

“Can’t you scan them for vitals? Like detect life?” Garm asked.

“What? Where did you hear that?” Delovoa snorted.

“I’m familiar with that expression. I have often heard of ‘scanning for lifeforms,’” Rendrae stated.

“Think about that. What’s life? How can you scan for it? Gandrine are lifeforms composed of heavy minerals. Keilvin Kamigan are gaseous life. Dredel Led are sentient computers. And then you have 40,000 different types of Colmarians. What kind of scan would be able to zap all those species and return a value of true? There’s no one algorithm that can conclusively state something is alive or not alive. It’s just lazy and stupid to think otherwise,” Delovoa ranted.

“Who are you yelling at? It was just a question,” Garm said.

“Can’t you see if they have any tissue? You don’t need to scan Gandrine and all those other species. We’re only concerned about the Dead of Nova Ammonium,” Rendrae said.

“The amount of radiation required to penetrate that industrial mining equipment would, again, be very dangerous to the surrounding city. You can’t scan a battleship to see if there’s a puppy inside. You’d kill the puppy with that many charged particles and never even detect it.”

“Okay, okay. So we don’t know if they’re alive. But you can still look at them and see if there’s weaknesses. You’re a super engineer, right?” Garm asked.

“Yes. Yes, I am. And as far as I can tell, each one of them is completely unique. They don’t have any gaping vulnerabilities or convenient off switches. I suggest avoiding them. Shouldn’t be too difficult,” he said.

“So we have Uso-Reese we have to avoid and maybe twenty unscannable, maybe-robots we have to avoid. This city is becoming inhospitable,” Rendrae said.

“I think Uso-Reese is a greater concern. He has over 10,000 troops at his command and they can directly interface with local systems and security. Though, I’m betting those cyborgs can as well. They’ve done a number of contracts over the years and they can’t simply have relied on bumping into their targets by aimlessly walking around,” Garm said.

“You know, we might be able to pit these groups against each other,” Rendrae stated.

“I don’t see how. Just because Uso-Reese isn’t experienced with running a prohibited assassination contract doesn’t mean he’s a total dummy,” she said.

“Right. But he had specifically asked to call off the other assassins. He didn’t want them interfering.”

“Yeah, but they weren’t called off. You can’t do that. Someone spends weeks or months and a small fortune to come out here, you can’t cancel the contract. They’d come kill you if you did,” she said.

“I understand that. But Uso-Reese has an army. And he can’t find Sal—for the time being. And he can’t find us—for the time being. He can find the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6%,” Rendrae replied.

“But he doesn’t know they’ve accepted the contract. We found that out,” she said.

“But we can tell him.”

“That’s…actually a really good idea,” she said.

“You sound so surprised.”

“You’re a journalist.”

“And where do you think stories come from?”

“What?” she asked, startled.

“I’m speaking of slow news days. I never made up anything. But I report on crime. And if you inform one criminal that another criminal is performing the same task a few blocks over, that leads to all sorts of vibrant storytelling opportunities. I merely give everyone the chance to be themselves. And Uso-Reese seems like he would gladly assist us with our assassin problem.”



Over the next few days, the group attempted various subtle means of notifying Uso-Reese.

It was a precarious situation. If they went over and told him in person, he would be aware they were spying on him—because why else would he care about assassins competing for an assignment?

Not only that, but Garm and Rendrae were personally wanted for questioning. And if they showed up and let it be known they were monitoring the illegal activities of the centurion advocate, they would not only be abducted, but their questioning would take a distinctly brutal turn—not that it would have been gentle to begin with.

Delovoa was not wanted in connection with Sal, but he was wanted for all sorts of other things. There were groups in the government who deemed the scientist’s contributions worthy enough to permit looking the other way, but Uso-Reese was not in those groups. And he had already indicated he was willing to use his position to murder a child. He would not hesitate to kill Delovoa if the scientist suddenly showed up and stated he knew about the traitorous activities of the soldier.

And they couldn’t even get someone to relay the message. If that courier decided to turn them in, the finder’s fee would be significant.

So they were left with giving hints and signals. And Centurion Advocate Uso-Reese did not notice any of them. He was a military man and his idea of inuendo was shooting someone in the leg.

He was also still in charge of the vice admiral’s significant forces. He continued to forge Tapper’s authorization and pretend as if the admiral was still alive. While Uso-Reese could escape judgement for some weeks, if he ignored the duties of the Auxiliary Fourth Institution of Provisional Subarmaments, he would be discovered overnight.

Because a quarter billion troops would be doing nothing—or worse, doing what they were last ordered to do. And warships would run into things and millions of soldiers would die because of simple mistakes.

No, Uso-Reese had to keep up appearances. Which meant actually doing work. He was only a traitor after hours. Part time.

Attempt after attempt to let Uso-Reese know about the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% failed.

So with no other options, the group decided to call the soldier. It was incredibly risky.

Garm used one of the encrypted transmitters that Uso-Reese had himself utilized. Not the same one, obviously. This was from the city’s diplomatic arm. While encrypted, the ID of the device could be traced.

So if Uso-Reese decided to look at the source, he would see that the person calling him was using a device that had been assigned to the Under City of Belvaille—which was quite a coincidence. But given that this was an assassination job, she hoped that the centurion advocate would not delve too deeply.

But who would call the man with details of rival assassins? The idea was that they would disguise themselves as the person who Uso-Reese spoke to in the hotel. That person had already been wearing a disguise, so it wouldn’t be difficult to copy that.

They were going to pretend the contract originator was following up and providing information. If you were a professional assassin, that would be an incredibly strange turn of events and likely cause you to drop the contract. But Uso-Reese wasn’t a pro.

It was agreed that Delovoa would make the call. There was really no other choice.

Garm was a woman. She sounded like a woman. Even with voice modulators, she still wouldn’t fit the part very well.

Rendrae was too round. He wouldn’t match the shape of the first caller.

Delovoa could roughly pretend to be the person who Uso-Reese saw in the hotel via holographic communication. They’d wrap the same scarf on him and provide a script on what to say.

To set up the meeting, they had to first ping Uso-Reese and wait. It took nine hours for him to get back, as he was not expecting any communication from assassin paymasters. He had to get through his regular work day, get to a hotel, and make the secure transmission.

Everyone was salty and tired by that point. Garm wasn’t. But she wasn’t on the line.

They got Delovoa into costume, dimmed the lighting to emulate the first message, and connected with Centurion Advocate Uso-Reese.

“Hey, hey, hey,” Delovoa said, pointing at the camera with both hands.

Garm’s mouth dropped open and Rendrae waved his arms to indicate that Delovoa was violently off-script.

“Um. Hello. What is this about? I’m quite busy,” Uso-Reese replied.

Everyone could see the holographic projection of the soldier but he, in turn, could only view Delovoa’s upper body. They decided not to watch the cameras of his hotel room on the off chance there was feedback or interference or he heard himself echoing.

“Yeah, so I was just kicking around, doing my assassination stuff, and I thought on what you were yapping about,” Delovoa went on. He was making massive, random gestures at every word and speaking with strange emphasis and rhythm.

They had rehearsed how this would go numerous times. Rendrae and Garm had worked together to create a compelling and rational script.

And Delovoa was doing none of it. Though not on purpose. Like most people, Delovoa was simply a terrible actor.

When the lights came on, and Delovoa suddenly had to perform on demand, the script vanished from his three brains. Garm and Rendrae were frantically mouthing words and pantomiming and it only made it worse.

“I’m not…am I speaking to the same…you know, person, I spoke with before?” Uso-Reese asked. The non-subtle soldier was detecting something wrong.

“Yes-sir-up-sir. Which is, of course, a common phrase we say. Always say it. Yes-dir-dope-dir. Is…another common phrase. Common phrases being common. In common with dother dommons. Which are words you may not have heard before,” Delovoa replied.

Garm sat down. She began thinking about where she would go and what she would do. She’d gotten good at working in the government, cutting and applying mammoth amounts of red tape. Maybe she could go to some other sector and get an auditor job. She liked the concept of auditors. People who told other people they were doing something wrong. But perhaps it was safer to stay out of government. Just try her hand at something more practical. Something with jewelry. While Garm didn’t particularly like wearing jewelry, she really enjoyed stealing and hoarding it.

Rendrae was still attempting to steer the scientist. He could not understand how it was going so poorly. The script had been airtight. They came up with answers and dodges for every possible question they could envision. The script was thirteen pages long with branch after branch of response meant to put Uso-Reese at ease.

And from the first syllable, Delovoa went off. Now he was pacing around, gesticulating wildly, and speaking actual nonsense.

“I’m not sure…is this connection…uh, faulty? I might have to call you back. Is the contract still…you know…still sound?” Uso-Reese asked, suddenly reluctant to admit to any wrongdoing.

“Yes-sir-so-sir. What I was call-iferating to you for was because I have not, precisely, not made the not…other thing,” Delovoa babbled, spinning his arms so rapidly he almost fell down.

“What?”

“The assassins-es. That are contractually contracted are there. In the Down. Down Belvaille.”

Uso-Reese stared at the projection, not sure what was going on.

“You wanted to know the other assassins,” Delovoa spit out.

“I am not…I don’t want…competition is bad,” Uso-Reese said, careful to avoid stating anything directly incriminating.

“Too bad. But I can tell you that Dead Ammonia Six is the one. They’re one. They’re here. Not here, of course. There.”

“I don’t understand. Have you been drinking?”

“No. No-sir-soap-stir. You don’t cancel contracts. Doesn’t happen. But I can tell you that Dead…of Nova Ammonium % are one of the other groups. They are on Belvaille,” Delovoa said.

“I don’t know what that is.”

“I just told you! They’re assassins. Same job. Same contract as you. You know? That’s what you wanted, right?”

“No. I wanted…I mean, it is advisable…inasmuch as I understand it…that groups should not be in competition,” Uso-Reese said delicately.

“What do you want, a stupid script that’s impossible to remember?”

“Dead of Ammonia?” Uso-Reese asked skeptically.

“Dead of Nova Ammonium 6%. They’re cyborgs. Or robots. Or something. If you don’t want competition, then do that. Them.”

“Do what?”

“Kill them, stupid! Or whatever,” Delovoa declared.

Rendrae sat down as well. This was going horribly. He had seen children’s school plays with better performances than this.

“Did you…did you tell them about me?” Uso-Reese asked, concerned.

“No. You don’t do that. That’s not done.”

“But…you just did. You told me about them,” Uso-Reese pointed out.

“Yeah, but, you know, you’re a good Colmarian. They’re—ugh—gross! Lame. Like…it’s different. Look, guy, you wanted to know, now you know. Just quit bugging me and do the thing. Alright? Is that asking too much? Or should I find someone else? I got assassins. So much assassins. And because of that…that’s the information. Bye, bye, bye,” Delovoa said, and he mashed the controls until he finally disconnected the call.

Rendrae was now sitting on the floor. Garm was lying prone on the couch, one arm draped over her face.

“I think I flubbed a few lines,” Delovoa announced.



It was unclear whether Delovoa’s antics were some 5th dimensional brain play that even he couldn’t decipher or Uso-Reese was so desperate he didn’t care about the erratic call.

Whatever the case, hours later, Rendrae’s field operatives reported the Colmarian soldiers attempting to make contact with the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6%.

Soldiers weren’t diplomats and they weren’t circumspect. They marched right up. Delovoa’s cameras recorded the events. It took hours, and numerous attempts by frustrated platoons, but they eventually managed to pass along some kind of message to the boxy machines.

The soldiers didn’t know what they were doing. Not only in the sense that they lacked skill at communicating with cyborgs who didn’t particularly feel like communicating. But the soldiers were also not aware of the purpose of the message. That was one thing Garm was particularly concerned about. Was it just Uso-Reese or was the entire water park division knowingly cooperating with the assassination of a foreign royal? And a baby, no less.

But it was obvious, from their flailing, hectic, frustrated attempts, that the soldiers were unaware that they were helping coordinate an assassination.

So Uso-Reese was working alone. That was valuable information.

If anything, however, it made him even more dangerous. Garm deduced that Uso-Reese was trying to secure the contract for himself. This was not some political play by the Colmarian Navy. At least it wasn’t any longer. Uso-Reese was desperate for money.

Which meant he was willing to burn a lifetime of bridges and career advancement and spend the remainder of his life running or in hiding. And, at the moment, he had control over a vast amount of destructive resources.

A teleporting assassin was bad. But the commander of 250 million soldiers who was prepared to risk absolutely everything he had was far more frightening.



Delovoa, Rendrae, and Garm were watching the Great Negotiation via cameras. Uso-Reese personally spoke with representatives from the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6%.

The meeting was already well under way when they finally got one of Delovoa’s camera banks to focus on the event.

As far as the group was concerned, this was a nightmare scenario. Instead of attacking his competitors and killing them, as they had hoped, Uso-Reese was proposing a partnership.

From a logistical point of view, it made perfect sense. In fact, it’s exactly what Garm would have done if she had been in the same situation. Instead of butting heads with a rival group, simply pool your resources. There was enough money in the contract to satisfy everyone—how rich did you need to be?

They were all thinking that putting these two together was a major miscalculation on their part. Now they would have to contend with the Navy and a group of powerful cyborgs working together.

But however wise it was for the assassin teams to join forces, the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% weren’t interested. The entire meeting was very much a one-sided conversation with Uso-Reese doing almost all the talking.

After painful minutes of watching the centurion advocate illuminate the benefits of partnership wherein they would form an unbeatable, child-killing force, the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% simply said: No.

And then they walked away.

It was a startling moment that left Rendrae, Garm, and Delovoa utterly dumbfounded.

Uso-Reese felt exactly the same way—but only for a moment.

Taking over Admiral Tapper’s responsibilities had, by necessity, instilled the same sort of decisive decision making into the junior officer. He was required to execute a million orders a day just to keep up appearances.

And one of those decisions the centurion advocate made was to command his forces to destroy the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6%. He explained they were responsible for the Belvaille Massacre. Though he didn’t have to explain anything—they were soldiers following orders.



A quick note about Belvaille and weapons.

Weapons were like any tools. They made tasks easier. And the task they made easier, was killing and injuring people.

To put it in terms of a metric, let’s say a guy with a sword was a factor of 1. Not very efficient. Still, if you got 50 guys with swords, they could accomplish a fair amount of killing. Now let’s say a simple handgun was a factor of 10. So that if you had 10 guys with swords or 1 guy with a handgun, it’s 50:50 who wins. These kinds of calculations were actually done all the time by people who kept track of killing.

Explosives were further force multipliers. A small explosive weapon could be a factor of 50—a rocket launcher or mortar. With the very largest explosive weapons—like Delovoa’s thermobaric rocket—being in the millions. Obviously, there were situations where it was better to have a handgun or even a sword, but it was hard to deny that explosives were pretty darn good at killing.

While there were lots and lots and lots of guns on Belvaille, there were no tanks. No heavily armored vehicles. No aircraft carriers. No robust military installations. Those kinds of things were frowned upon in Open Cultural Sites. They tended to make tourists, diplomats, and religious scholars uneasy.

There was, therefore, no need for explosives in the city. A rocket launcher might be very efficient—on paper—but in reality, it was only good against certain targets and instances. Convincing 50 guys with swords to stand in a big circle out in the open so you could use your efficient destructive weapon on them was not very likely to happen.

Admiral Tapper had brought almost 15,000 troops to Belvaille. They were armed with conventional weapons and even had some heavy machine guns. But they didn’t bring any powerful explosives because there was nothing to use them against.

If you had overwhelming force compared to your adversary, whether it was 5,000 guys with swords or 500 with guns, you didn’t bring anything else that could inadvertently be used against you and negate your advantage.

If Tapper had brought a bunch of rockets and mortars and tanks, they not only wouldn’t use those items, but they would have to expend a tremendous amount of resources guarding and protecting them. Because if those efficient tools got into the hands of the enemy, they could be used to upend the balance.

So why risk bringing them?

Tapper’s spaceships had absolute control over the orbit and avenues that led to Belvaille. No ships could reach the planet without their permission. And since there were no battleships or fighter jets or armored sharks on the planet, all they needed to secure the city was a whole mess of soldiers with swords—or less with guns.

But the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% weren’t regular people. They were the kind of thing that made military actuaries have high blood pressure. The Dead were essentially walking bunkers. They did not possess tremendous firepower but they were extremely durable.

Admiral Tapper had planned on keeping a low profile with his forces until needed. But Centurion Advocate Uso-Reese felt he did not have the luxury of being discreet. He was running out of time and he was no closer to locating the child. So he took out his frustrations on the one target he could find.

But as the soldiers began shooting at the cyborgs, it became clear that this was not going to work. The calculations were off. The only things the troops accomplished were scratching paint, making dents, and scaring the ever-loving crap out of the poor residents of the city.

What started off as a handful of soldiers quickly escalated as their continued lack of success brought more and more of their compatriots to add to the barrage.

Over the course of two days, approximately 2.5 million bullets were fired. So many, in fact, the water park base was running low. Because no one had anticipated needing to shoot 66.75 tons of ammunition. Why would they?

But the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% were not the victors in the conflict. They had little understanding of what the hell was going on. They had similar small arms as the soldiers, but after a few thousand bullets were hurled at them, those guns became little more than confetti.

You could call it a standoff, but there wasn’t much standing and the soldiers were only ever in danger of ricocheting bullets at themselves or spraining their trigger fingers.

Despite their plodding nature, and constrained thought processes, the cyborgs were not stupid. For whatever reasons, an army was trying to destroy them. The cyborgs’ repeated attempts to prove that they were Colmarian citizens in good—or okay—standing, were met with copious amounts of bullets by means of reply.

They recognized they had little chance of fighting that many soldiers. They couldn’t effectively engage the enemy and they couldn’t even pursue the assassination contract.

The Dead realized that the army was eventually going to get organized, get tactical, and they would figure out a way to destroy them.

So the cyborgs retreated and regrouped. Then they drew stems.

As part of their dark outlooks on existence, they kept the brain stems of the Dead who had…died. They were coated in metal and placed in a bucket. And they used a small magnet to draw them out one by one.

The member who drew the small stem “won.” All the others were jealous.

Large spaceships did not land on Belvaille. It wasn’t allowed. There had been numerous attempts over the centuries by people attempting to attack the relic. Large spaceships posed too much of a danger.

It was a bit odd having this attitude. Everyone knew the Thad Elon relic was capable of disintegrating persons seeking to do it harm. Yet all the empires firmly believed it could not take care of itself and must be protected. In actuality, the relic did not need anyone, whatsoever. But no one knew that, because they never gave it a chance to really show off—if they had, they would likely be a lot more scared of it than they were at the moment.

Since no large ships could land, everything had to be shuttled to and from vessels in orbit. Which was another huge cost associated with life on Belvaille.

There was a spaceport. And it was quite large, given that so many empires had a presence on the planet. It’s just that the ships on the surface were not all that massive. But there was a lot of shuttles, berths, maintenance areas, and unloading and distribution facilities.

Spaceship engines were a marvel. They did not rely on rare and dangerous fuels. They did not spew toxins. They were efficient inventions whose origins could be traced back to very early Thad Elon relics.

Spaceships, especially the shuttles and transports and commercial shipping trucks that were at the spaceport, had all sorts of regular old machines on them. And those machines required repairs and tools and chemicals to keep them working properly.

One of those omnipresent chemicals was called dithyl. That was the first two syllables of a six-syllable chemical compound that only scientists ever spoke in full. Its purpose was to repel water.

Dithyl was so good at keeping water away that it was the galactic standard. The reason it wasn’t used everywhere was because it was highly reactive with water. It pushed water the hell away. So only thin layers of dithyl were used and then reapplied as necessary.

But the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% who had drawn the short stem, dragged an entire above-ground storage container of dithyl onto their shuttle. It was a tight fit, given that the container held 100,000 gallons.

There were plenty of people who objected to this activity. The operation was not exactly subtle or fast. But the handful of spaceport security were even less prepared to deal with a renegade cyborg than Uso-Reese’s Navy detachment.

Once the container was on board, the lone Dead took off in the ship, keeping low in the atmosphere.

Belvaille officials sent all sorts of communications to the Dead. The shuttle was violating procedures, airspace, Open Cultural Site protocol, and thousands of other rules and regulations. But without anti-air defenses or anti-air anything, there was little anyone could do.

No one else would dare attempt such an activity. It was inviting life imprisonment and even disintegration from the relic itself. But as machines, the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% understood the relic far more than the average person. They posed no harm to the flying city and the city knew it. It therefore did not care.

The shuttle cruised far away so it could get appropriate distance. Messages were sent to the military vessels in orbit, but they would have a hard time shooting a single shuttle that was between the Upper and Lower Cities without endangering either one.

The Dead turned back and accelerated. It passed the speed of sound. Windows shattered on the tallest apartments. It passed Mach 2, and the shuttle began to lose handling as the forces knocked it silly. It was not designed for such fast atmospheric travel.

But it didn’t need long. The pilot suddenly pitched down and flew the ship straight into Slip Splash Fun Land, where the army that had been attacking them was based.

The impact was significant. About 5% of the park was completely obliterated by the high-speed ship.

When the Navy took over the facility, there was still a lot of water in the water park. The liquid was filthy, filled with algae and weeds and grime. But there was certainly a bunch of it. The Navy couldn’t use the area with all that terrible water and they couldn’t just pump it out into the street drains—the system couldn’t handle that much water that fast. It would simply overflow and flood all the streets and nearby buildings. And much of it would stream back into the water park itself.

So the Navy pumped it out and into storage tanks. This was a win-win for the Navy. They got all the water removed and they didn’t have to rely on local services for their needs. All they had to do was filter and clean the water as they needed it.

The Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% knew this. And when the shuttle hit, it ruptured numerous water tanks. And all that water mixed with the dithyl on the destroyed shuttle.

The resultant exothermic explosion destroyed another chunk of the park instantly. But more importantly, waves of tremendous heat flowed out and incinerated anything with a lower melting point than steel. Fires started everywhere.

Slip Splash Fun Land did not have robust fire prevention systems. Fire was not really a major concern at water parks. While the Navy had many portable extinguishers, they could not hope to deal with the widespread chemical fires taking place.

The Navy suffered huge casualties in the attack and the park was experiencing continuous detonations and fires.

Moreover, the very nature of the park kept the fires, and explosions, going. Dithyl was a liquid. Water was a liquid. The water park was designed to funnel and contain liquids. So little rivers of one or the other would streak out, find the lowest ground, and meet the other liquid that had done the same. And they would explode all over again.

The pilot actually survived the initial impact. He had lost an arm and his entire lower body, but that wasn’t a big deal. However, he was embedded about fifteen feet below the lowest pool. Past concrete, liners, and underground plumbing and wiring.

It took about fifteen minutes for him to finally die, which showed just how incredibly sturdy the Dead were. Rivulets of dithyl and water had made it into his tomb and slowly raised the temperature a few thousand degrees.

As the Dead’s circuitry began to melt and his remaining biological parts blistered and boiled, he thought to himself: This is a satisfactory way to die.



“You’re really good at this,” Fate said.

It was the third time in as many days she had complimented Hank. She had been amazed that Hank was actually proficient at anything whatsoever, having seen so much proof to the contrary.

What she was complimenting him on was the fact he was dragging them through the forest. They had constructed a travois, lashed all the gear to it, and MTB, Fate, and Sal were passengers as Hank lumbered along like a surly farm animal.

Sal enjoyed the ride the most. It was much smoother than being carried through the forest.

Their departure from the Belvaille Plantation of Hatred and Desolation had been slow going to start. MTB was injured. Fate, with her busted arm, could not balance well off-road.

So Hank agreed to pull them.

He had plenty of food about his person, with the rest of the supplies in the rear, and he ate as he walked. The group had been worried some of the serial killers might catch up with them or otherwise attempt to interfere, but the former villagers wanted nothing to do with them.

When their paths inadvertently drifted together, the villagers moved well away, and pulled on ahead of the slow Ontakian. The villagers were in a hurry to return to glorious Belvaille and stopping to fight Pale Demon in the forest wasn’t of any value.

MTB was doing somewhat better, but he still needed a hospital. He would likely heal on his own, if given enough time. But it would be a hard year of recuperation or a few weeks in a modern hospital.

Fate needed repairs and they didn’t have the tools in the forest.

Hank was tired. He was exhausted. And despite having access to food, it was terrible camping food. Food with a decade-long shelf life. He wanted a hot shower and a hot meal and a very long rest. Although he did regret not resolving the Clumpy semi-finals.

As they approached the Lower City of Belvaille, it was with mixed feelings. They were glad to be home, but they weren’t sure what was waiting for them.

As they got closer and closer, they could hear guns. Hundreds of guns. Machine guns.

“They’re shooting at us,” MTB said.

“If they are, they’re really bad aims,” Hank replied, looking around at the undisturbed forest edge.

“No, listen. We’re hearing echoes. That must be bouncing up street after street,” Fate said.

“What the hell could be doing that much shooting?” MTB asked.

Then they heard a boom from high above.

They looked up to see a shuttle streak overhead. It angled down and hit the city well beyond their view. A series of explosions reverberated dully.

They were all quiet for some time.

“Man,” Hank began. “I leave for a quick jungle safari and this whole city falls to pieces.”





CHAPTER 17


Regroup



Since MTB’s house was exploded, and my condo had been ransacked by a teleporting assassin, that left Fate’s home.

She had a modest place out in the middle of nowhere. It was a little bungalow plopped right alongside warehouses. Warehouses for miles in all directions.

“How did you ever find such a secluded spot?” I asked her.

“Garm. I can’t exactly stay in an apartment complex unless everyone is vetted. And it tends to be suspicious to have questions about whether or not you’re pro-robot on a rental application,” she replied.

Whatever the case, we didn’t see a single person on the walk. I was no longer dragging everyone via roped-together trees. That kind of activity was out of the ordinary even for Belvaille and we were still trying to maintain a low profile.

Our progress through the city was slow. While Fate could walk just fine now that she was back in an urban environment, MTB was dragging, having been out-hunted by a Deviant Midnight Ripper.

Even if anyone knew that Fate was involved with Sal, no one knew where she lived other than Garm. So we considered her place to be a safe sanctum—at least for a few days.

We got inside her home and it was just…an assault of colors. Every bright pigment you could imagine and many you could not.

“Ugh,” MTB said, shielding his eyes. It wasn’t merely the fabric or paint that caused us to wince. Every light source was a different color and intensity.

“Sorry,” she said, going around individually disconnecting lights or disabling their filters. “I don’t have many visitors and I don’t have the same kind of eyes as you. This is all just pretty light to me.”

“Are these secondhand furnishings?” I asked, wondering at the mismatch of colors and styles. Fate seemed to be pretty hip and even I could tell her décor clashed.

“No. My chassis is always going to be red and white. While I suppose I could wear clothes, I always feel absurd doing so. I’ve had to live with the same two colors for a lot of millennia. I tend to collect things with vibrant hues. Even if they look silly next to each other.”

“There’s…no couch or chairs or nothing,” MTB said.

“Yup. I’m still a robot. I think I can scrounge up some blankets.”

The house was really crowded. It was a small home and Fate had stuffed it with stuff. She was able to dodge around everything with machine efficiency.

I stepped inside and immediately broke a table and some weird thing that might have been a sculpture.

“Sorry.”

“Just stop moving for a second. Let me get Sal out of harm’s way and I’ll clear some space.”

“Do you have anything to eat?” MTB asked.

“Still a robot,” she called, having gone deeper into the house with Sal.

“And we thought Delovoa’s missile silo was uncomfortable,” MTB noted.

“We could always try my pad. Might be the last place the assassin looks since he already went there.”

“Friendly Meadow Condominiums isn’t safe for anybody except you. I had people open fire on me twice. Once in the lobby and once getting out of my car in the garage.”

“Yeah, my neighbors don’t like cops. Or anyone, really.”

“I suppose if we can get some, like, mattresses in here, we’ll be okay. What color is that light? Puce?”

“I don’t know. This place is giving me a headache, though,” I replied.

Fate came back in, having deposited Sal in another room. She then began clearing a path of furniture and junk. But she was having difficulty because of her damaged arm. Also, she wasn’t particularly strong as machines went.

“If you need furniture moved, I’m actually an expert. I can help if you want,” I said.

“Don’t do it. I asked Hank to give a hand when I moved into my house. A large tele screen and antique desk were reduced to atoms,” MTB said.

“I gave you replacements,” I said.

“Stolen ones.”

“What do you care if they’re stolen?” I asked.

“You may be surprised to learn that when you’re under an ethics investigation, having your house filled with stolen merchandise isn’t beneficial to your case,” he replied.

“I didn’t make you crooked.”

“No. You didn’t. But you sure didn’t help,” he said.

“Do you expect me to be your conscience or something? It’s been well-established by the robots present that I’m not good at anything. About the only job I’m capable of doing is being a criminal,” I said.

“I need to fix my shoulder. Can someone assist with the tools?” Fate said, interrupting our argument.

Fate recognized we were beat up, tired, hungry, and not enjoying our status as wanted outlaws in a home designed for artificial life. But she couldn’t make it more comfortable while her arm was malfunctioning.

“Let me try,” I said, just to get away from MTB for a moment.

We went into the kitchen where Fate had some complicated equipment she used to repair herself.

“You’re going to need to bend back the shoulder guard and use this to adjust the arm joint,” she said, handing me an electronic wrench. “This one is needed to set the upper arm. Just above the elbow. You have to do both at the same time.”

I tried to do what she said and was making my way around her confusing torso. Much like a human patient, Fate had her head turned as I “operated.” That was just how real her emotions were. She was squeamish about seeing herself taken apart.

And then her entire arm fell off, hitting the floor with a bang.

“What did you do?” she asked.

“I’m not very handy with tools,” I admitted.

“Then why the hell did you volunteer to do advanced robotics maintenance? What is it with you people? Just say you can’t help instead of vivisecting me.”

“Sorry.”

“MTB. If I come over there, can you fix this?”

“I’ll do my best,” he said, calling from his spot where he was lying on the floor.

“See? At least he’s honest,” Fate said to me.

She began to try and pick up her arm and the tools, but only had one hand available, obviously.

“Want me to carry anything?”

“No. You’ve done enough. Stand in a corner and be quiet. Don’t lean against the walls. I don’t think this house can take it.”

She had to make three trips to gather all the materials in the living room. They began to work, with the injured MTB grunting and weak.

“Sorry about the arm,” I called, feeling guilty as they struggled.

“Sorry for which part? Shooting me or ripping off the entire appendage?” she replied.

“He shot me as well,” MTB said.

“I remember. You’re lucky he didn’t kill you.”

“I shot myself, too. When we were fighting that cat,” I said, fingering my forearm, though there was no scar or bruise or anything.

“Shut up. We aren’t talking to you,” she yelled.

I stood there silently—twiddling my thumbs. I had a moment or three to look about the kitchen and connecting hallway.

Fate had pinned up drawings. Obviously from children. Must have been some charity work or other. She had lots of framed notes from people. I couldn’t even read the writing. Not only because I wasn’t used to seeing handwritten scrawl, but because the letters must have been 25,000 years old. Only the faintest residue was now visible.

As I was carefully walking around the place, not only was I amazed with how old Fate was, but how lonely she must be. She couldn’t go out and interact because people were afraid of her. People were afraid of me, but they were afraid of me for valid reasons. And even so, they didn’t mind hanging out with me and sharing a drink or two.

Fate was not only illegal, but harboring her, helping her, not reporting her—all were serious crimes. If she was discovered, by the single law-abiding person in Belvaille, Fate would be instantly destroyed.

No trial. No imprisonment. No questions asked.

That was probably what brought Fate to Belvaille to begin with. Or at least kept her here. This was a city of outlaws. While no one would go out of their way to be her friend, they wouldn’t care nearly as much as in some proper Colmarian habitat. She’d never get into a place like that. They’d scan her and kill her at quarantine.

After 45 minutes of them working on her arm, I got fed up of waiting. I was a feared and respected criminal—or at least somewhat feared. I’d be damned if I was going to be given a timeout by a sexbot.

I went walking through the house.

“Where are you going?” Fate asked, alarmed.

“Calm down, I’m going to check on Sal. Keep fixing your body.”

“Don’t mess with her. Your fat fingers are deadly,” she said.

The house had a bathroom, but Fate was using it as a big closet. While she was organized, she had accumulated a lot of stuff over a lot of time. Even if she was thrifty and clean and trashed all her possessions whenever she moved, anyone that had been kicking around that long was going to have junk.

I opened a door and was amazed to see a large room filled with animals in cages. Every kind of small animal you could possibly imagine—that didn’t require veterinarian assistance or regular walking. Cages and aquariums and terrariums and roosts and whatever else. Stuff hissed, squeaked, chirped, and a thousand other things.

It’s not just that the walls were lined with cages, up to the ceiling, she had also constructed aisles of them. Row after row. I couldn’t even fit inside the room because there was only enough space for a slender robot with good dexterity.

“What are you doing?” Fate asked, coming up behind me. Her arm was still not fully repaired, but she was clearly concerned about me snooping around.

“You’re like a zoo person. Zoo lady. Animal…collector. Where did you get all these?”

“I order them. This is off-limits,” she said, trying to close the door. But I was standing there so that wasn’t happening.

“Hey, that’s a ferret, right? I ate one of those back in my universe. It was a delicacy. Actually, I don’t know if it was a true delicacy. We didn’t get a lot of fresh meat on a space station. But it didn’t taste bad.”

Fate tried to get in my face. But there wasn’t enough room to squeeze by me.

“If you consume any of my animals I will kill you,” she said seriously.

I ducked my head so I could step back into the hall and face her. She was about the size of my arm and about 1% as strong.

“Okay. Let me rephrase that. After we cooperate and save Sal, I will hire someone to kill you. Or at least put some embarrassing graffiti on your bald head using permanent ink,” she clarified.

“I’m not going to eat your pets,” I said, though I spared a look back in the room before she closed the door.

“Sorry, I’m just not used to having strangers in my home. It makes me uncomfortable,” she said.

“So having your arm dismantled is normal, but you feel weird about houseguests?”

“Sure. I have to repair myself all the time. But I never have anyone over.”

“Well, I’m not going to steal nothing or eat nothing that you don’t want me to eat. Though we really need to get some food in here.”

“Let’s order some spicy noodles,” MTB called from the other room.

Fate checked on Sal. There was only this other room and it was crammed with stuff. I looked in, but couldn’t fit. There was barely room for Fate to move around.

I went to rejoin MTB.

“We need to figure out what that gunfire and bombing was,” MTB said.

“When we came out of the forest? Why? We can worry about stupid gang stuff after this is over.”

“That wasn’t gangs. Gangs don’t fire fifty machine guns or fly spaceships into the ground. You know that. The worst a gang is ever going to do is set a building on fire. And they’ll do that at night so they can get away. That was some other craziness,” he said.

“You think it’s connected to us?” I asked.

“No. But it might be connected to Sal. And since he’s over there,” he began.

“In the room next to the ferrets.”

“Then we better figure out if someone is crashing ships on purpose before one lands on us.”

Fate came back with some towels and blankets for MTB to lie on.

“Fate, why come you don’t live with Dredel Led? In their empire?” MTB asked. “You get treated pretty poor here.”

“My butler Cliston could provide you some references. Once he’s back from sabbatical. And if we’re not dead.”

“I know of Cliston,” she said.

“Everyone knows Cliston. People have literally murdered in order to taste his food. And the guy probably wrote half the training manuals in the galaxy,” MTB said.

“Yeah, but only to really obscure stuff. I saw one about how to clean the insides of those old-style nuclear power plants. Like, clean the actual core. While it was operational,” I said.

“Must have been a short pamphlet,” he replied.

“No, it was super long. But I only understood two words in the first five pages. But MTB is right, you won’t get a fair shake here. It’s only been a few weeks where I’ve been on the run from murderous people trying to kill me for no good reason and I got to say, it blows. You’ve been doing it for…thousands of years. Why not go to Dredel Led space?”

“Because they hate me even more than the Colmarians.”

“Really? Why?” I asked.

“Citizens in this empire dislike me because they think I’m some fairy tale monster. Apparently, I’m the first artificial intelligence that didn’t promptly slaughter her creators and anyone nearby—and if you were a more introspective bunch, that might tell you a whole lot. But Colmarians are simply ignorant and don’t understand me. Dredel Led, on the other hand, know precisely what I am. They think I’m a mockery at best, blasphemy at worst. They’d destroy me faster than the Confederation.”

“How about Rettosians? They’re a brainy bunch. Stuck up, but smart,” I said.

“There is no empire in this entire galaxy that respects me being alive and free-willed. None. Those outcasts in the woods got better treatment than I’ve ever received. And I’ll remind you that one of them replaced thousands of crates of dental floss with nanowire so people sliced open their faces when they brushed their teeth. My life isn’t fair, but it’s what I have to deal with.”

“Damn, Fate,” I said, feeling sorry for her.

“Don’t try and hug me!” She said, backing away. “You’ll break both my arms. Go order some noodles for MTB.”

“He needs a doctor.”

“If you call me a doctor, I’ll be in the morgue immediately after,” he said.

“You’re hurt, man,” I said.

“You think I don’t know that? You think having a bunch of busted ribs and torn muscles is my idea of a fun time? We got to be smart.”

“Yeah. Like going out in the wilderness when we had no clue how to survive out there,” I said.

“On our behalf, we knew so little about the woods we didn’t even realize we shouldn’t go in the first place,” Fate said.

“I can limp along. Just give me some time to heal,” he said.

“Fate, can you send a message to Garm?” I asked.

“Don’t use teles. The Navy is after us. And if anyone can hack a tele, it’s them,” MTB said.

“I mean that radio thing she’s got,” I said.

“No. I can’t transmit. My gracious designers expected me to listen and not be heard,” she replied.

“We can’t sit here forever. MTB is hurt. I’m hungry. You require some real maintenance—beyond what we can provide with a wrench and screwdriver. And you have at least fifty snakes and lizards and frogs and mice that Sal might have a reaction to. Oh, and you don’t have a toilet,” I said.

“She doesn’t?” MTB asked, concerned.

“I do. I simply have to move stuff out of that room,” she replied.

“It’s not a room. It’s a crapper and shower. Stuff us biologicals need. And where you going to move it? We’re up to our eyeballs in brightly colored souvenirs,” I asked.

“As I had already mentioned, I’m not used to having guests. We don’t even know if Garm is available. Last message, she mentioned something about killing an admiral.”

“She’s the only one that can get that kid out of here,” MTB said.

“If we can’t use teles, can’t walk around, and none of us are proficient in mental telepathy, how exactly are we supposed to find and notify Garm? Do we really need to use her?” Fate asked.

“My circle of friends and colleagues doesn’t exactly extend to trans-galactic royalty,” I said.

“Hank’s right. It feels like it’s getting harder to lay low. There’s either a gang war going on or it’s assassins killing each other for the opportunity to kill us. Either way, we can’t hold out forever,” MTB said.

“Why don’t we take Sal to the Upper City?” Fate asked.

“You don’t know what that thing is. It’s a murderous contraption made by a murderous god,” I said.

“But no one can hurt each other up there, right?” she asked.

“Yeah. But getting up there ain’t easy. It takes weeks or months to get access—assuming you’re important enough,” MTB said.

“Sal is royalty. Or at least we assume she is,” Fate said.

“Even so, there’s only one shuttle that takes you up there. He’d never make it, even if we could wait around long enough for him to get clearance,” MTB said.

“I think at this point we have no choice but to wait for Garm and hope she’s doing better than we are,” I said.

“It would take a conscious, concerted effort on behalf of Garm for her to perform anywhere nearly as bad as we have,” Fate replied.





CHAPTER 18


The Assistants



Rendrae was with Delovoa in another one of the scientist’s secret hiding spots. This one was located directly underneath the boys’ locker rooms and showers at a local high school.

The compartment was accessed via a long, narrow tunnel that started from a manhole cover two blocks away. Rendrae had a difficult time crawling through the tunnel, but the group felt it was prudent to keep switching locations.

“How is it you possess all these underground, furtive spots? How did this even get constructed without anyone noticing?” Rendrae asked.

“A true scientist never reveals his information,” Delovoa replied.

“Isn’t that precisely the purpose of a scientist?”

“Meh-meh meh-meh mur-moh muh mah mien-mist?” Delvoa replied, mocking the reporter’s words.

“And by Thad Elon, how does it smell so bad in here?” Rendrae added.

“There’s a gym and shower above us. Young men get stinky.”

“But we’re surrounded by concrete. Are you venting air from up there? Are there holes or something?”

“Just worry about your reporting nonsense,” Delovoa said tersely. He was not overly fond of the reporter, who always seemed to portray Delovoa as some kind of weird pervert in his newspaper. That kind of coverage made it difficult for Delovoa to do any weird pervert stuff, because people were on their guards around him.

“Hey,” Garm said.

Both men jumped in surprise.

“Wear a bell!” Delovoa demanded.

Garm deposited some food she scrounged. There wasn’t much room in the hiding spot. Just some chairs, a basic bathroom, and Delovoa’s ever-present computer terminals.

“Okay, we’re all here,” Rendrae began. “I spoke with some of my sources and it seems like we succeeded: The Navy is attacking the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6%.”

“No crap. We knew that already,” Delovoa said.

“It’s hard to get an accurate accounting, because no one wants to get too close, but it seems the shuttle attack killed thousands of soldiers and injured many more. Their base at Slip Splash Fun Land has become almost entirely unusable. There are continuous fires. Even the surrounding blocks have been damaged.”

“1,3,1-dithylbiotene,” Delovoa said.

“Where did they get it? We should know if they can blow up entire water parks at will,” Garm said.

“They got it from the spaceport, I assume,” Delovoa replied.

“What’s it for? Seems kind of dangerous to have bombs stationed at a spaceport,” Rendrae noted.

“It is merely a chemical. It reacts with water. They use it, in small quantities, to keep moisture away from sensitive components.”

“Do they have more?” Garm asked.

“I suppose at the spaceport. I must have told those idiots a hundred times not to store whole containers of the stuff. Or at least mix it with a polymer base so it’s less volatile. While the containers are robust, there’s all kinds of heavy lifters and enormous spaceships moving about. If one of those tanks ruptures, there’s going to be fires and explosions every time we have a morning haze or afternoon drizzle.”

“Who did you tell? Why am I just now hearing about this?” Garm asked.

Delovoa realized there was an actual city official in his presence.

“Oh, I didn’t really tell anyone. What do I care if the spaceport blows up? But I thought it. Many, many times.”

“But even if it’s beneficial as a water-thing, why store such an efficient bomb substance at a public spaceport?” Rendrae asked.

“It’s not efficient at all. Water is bulky and heavy. Dithyl is even more so. And you have to mix them evenly. If you just sloshed two pools together, the first part that touches will detonate and push away all the rest. So if you wanted to truly weaponize it, you’d have to make some perfectly adjusted vapor device that saturates an area before the two parts make contact. And that’s not really feasible in a bomb—or if it’s windy outside. It’s far more efficient to pack almost any kind of ordnance. Even simple gunpowder is more efficient,” Delovoa said.

“It seems like it blew the hell out of that water park,” Garm replied.

“Because the water was already there. And because a shuttle of significant mass crashed into it at tremendous velocity. The purpose of the dithyl—I assume—was to render the park, and all the military hardware, unusable.”

“That’s what my field reporters are saying. The Navy tried to fight the fires at first, but it proved too difficult. They seem to have mostly abandoned the base. But that makes it hard to get an accurate reading on how many are left,” Rendrae said.

“How do we get rid of the dithyl? We can’t have the city spontaneously blowing up every time a fog rolls in,” Garm said.

“I don’t know. A lot of sponges and mops?” Delovoa shrugged.

“That’s not our concern now. The fire departments, at least ten different ones, are dealing with it,” Rendrae said.

Garm sighed. She doubted the competing fire services would be up to the task.

“I was able to intercept some communications between Uso-Reese and the Navy ships around us. They were just recordkeeping and standard procedure messages.”

“Wait. There’s more than one Navy ship?” Rendrae asked.

“Of course. There are Navy ships in low orbit. Far orbit. Middle. All over the place. If you threw a rock—in space—it will eventually hit a Colmarian Navy ship. Then bounce off and eventually hit another. Those forces didn’t disembark from one single ship. It was multiple,” she said.

“Are they all coming down?” Rendrae asked.

“Let me finish. Uso-Reese is telling them that everything is fine. Tapper is alive. Nothing is out of the ordinary.”

“So?” Delovoa asked.

“So that means that Uso-Reese is working alone. He might have some other conspirators, but the bulk of those personnel up there aren’t in on it. He doesn’t want anyone else to land and he’s pretending a water park base didn’t just blow up and his forces aren’t trying to kill some cyborgs and assassinate a baby.”

“That’s good news, right?” Rendrae asked.

“Sort of. No more troops are going to land on us. But it means Uso-Reese is really dangerous. Because he is using soldiers for personal gain—and getting them murdered in the process.”

“Isn’t that precisely what you do, Adjunct Overwatch?”

Rendrae did not like Garm. He felt she was, even now, holding back on them and putting them in jeopardy. All because she cared about nothing other than making a profit.

“Oh, Rendrae. If I did half the things you report I do, I wouldn’t be hiding under a boy’s bathroom with two strange men. I’d just buy out everyone involved.”

“But you admit to being corrupt. A corrupt government functionary.”

“If you notice, I don’t send armies of office workers to their deaths in order to get extra cash. I don’t really have any soldiers at my disposal,” she said.

“What turgid magniloquence! You are Adjunct Overwatch. You possess all of our military.”

“No, I don’t. Every soldier, every officer, every official reports to their proper Colmarian bosses. I am just, in theory, supposed to organize them all. But I’m not the one who approves or denies their promotions, or gives them vacations, or hands over their salaries. If I jump up and down and scream, I can get them to do what I want—usually. But my army is composed of clerks, secretaries, utility workers, and accountants.”

“It’s still an army,” Rendrae countered.

“When I want something dirty done, I hire dirty people. There’s a big difference in getting kickbacks and looking the other way, and actively sending government employees to their deaths for personal gain. Uso-Reese was already a traitor, many times over. But now he’s getting Navy soldiers killed over an illegal, self-dealing enterprise. If he’s caught, he’ll be executed.”

“I don’t see how the Navy can be unaware of what is transpiring down here,” Rendrae said.

Garm didn’t like Rendrae either. She knew he was part of the masculine club of Belvaille that celebrated certain aspects of criminality while overlooking nearly everything else. He was, at best, a hypocrite.

“The Navy does know what’s going on. Even soldiers have teles. And I’m sure many down here are in contact with their friends on those ships. They know Uso-Reese is lying, but he’s in charge. You can’t just mutiny every time a stupid order is issued—the military would cease to function overnight. But Uso-Reese is running out of time and he’s desperate,” she said.

“Yes. The Dead are openly fighting the Navy in the streets. Several of the cyborgs have been destroyed. But it’s bedlam,” Rendrae stated.

“You’re telling me. I thought the Belvaille Massacre was bad. And now we have this. I’ve copied the strategy of Uso-Reese and notified all Belvaille law enforcement to ignore the situation. I said it’s ‘merely’ another gang war. Which isn’t far from the truth,” Garm said.

“Shouldn’t they be helping in the fight?”

“We mostly have police-level forces down here. They aren’t capable of battling the Navy and some super cyborgs. But I have other news. I put some traps in our records departments. I wanted to be notified if anyone was looking up anything on me, you, or the Ank assassination. I’ve gotten word that there are some active inquiries going on.”

“Who are making these inquiries? Is it the Navy?” Rendrae asked.

“Don’t know. Delovoa, do you have any cameras at the Concourse of Records #28 or Department of Departmental Facilitation #11?” Garm asked.

“Maybe. I can’t say I’m familiar with those ridiculous names.”

“Can your cameras see who is going in the buildings at what times?” she added.

“No. But I can see if they used the bathrooms,” he replied.

Garm and Rendrae did not like Delovoa. He was a mad scientist with a perverse definition of what constituted science. They felt it was pure luck that he hadn’t killed them all already—not because of their current situation, just in general.

Delovoa was aware that his companions didn’t like him. And he didn’t care.

When people say they didn’t care about the opinions of others, they were mostly lying or deluding themselves. They cared, if only a little. It didn’t mean they cried themselves to sleep every night, but they were affected at least somewhat.

But Delovoa really didn’t give a damn. And that wasn’t a compliment. If Rendrae and Garm liked Delovoa he wouldn’t care. If they loved him, he wouldn’t care.

Delovoa had actually lost track of how many Doomsday devices he had created. The thermobaric neutron burst warhead was simply one of them. It was fortunate for everyone that he didn’t care that people disliked him. Because his main joy came from inventing weapons capable of killing everyone—regardless of their opinions toward him.

“We can’t stay down here much longer. I’m fairly certain we’re respirating the sweat and body odor from a hundred different species of boys,” Rendrae said.

“That reminds me, I picked up some air fresheners. I grabbed a handful. Which one do you like the most?” Garm said, giving Rendrae a bunch of small devices.

“This one is nice. A bit sweet. Oh, what’s this?”

“Yeah, I like that one, too. It’s supposed to be ocean lava and honey. But I’ve never seen the ocean, or lava, and the only honey I tasted was gross, so I can’t say whether it’s accurate or not.”

“Don’t put up any air fresheners. I like the ambiance,” Delovoa said.

“You’re the only one,” Rendrae replied.

“Then go find your own underground bunker.”

The group decided to compromise. Over the next day they put up an air freshener. It was labeled as cut grass, blue cinnamon, and ionic mountain vapors. But in payment for less stinky air, Garm had to steal some dirty socks, shirts, and ganglion throat straps from the gymnasium above them.

“There are so many ways I’m going to die if this goes wrong,” Garm said, on returning from her adventures. “But if anyone finds out I just pilfered a boy’s locker room, I’ll die of embarrassment. You better not tell anyone,” she added, pointing menacingly at Rendrae.

“Me? Then I would be required to illuminate my own participation in this disgusting escapade since I was your lookout.”

“You two are such babies,” Delovoa replied, sniffing the garments.

“While you were setting up, I did some reporting on the Ank,” Rendrae stated.

“And? Do I need to buy a newspaper to get the details?” Garm asked. She was applying liberal amounts of sanitizer to her skin in attempt to remove the stench.

“The Ank know of the surviving child. And our government’s inability or unwillingness to return it. They have been putting all kinds of economic pressure on the Confederation. On the entire galaxy. The last I heard was that they had swapped the short-term commodity regression in the form of treasury vouchers to middle-term expirations,” he said.

“What’s that mean?” she asked.

“I spoke to three different bankers. Apparently, money supply and credit has become so tightened that interest rates have risen 28.394%.”

“What?” Garm asked, shocked. “At a bank? That would put borrowing at loan-shark levels! That will squeeze every business to death.”

“Yes. The financiers in question seemed rather distressed.”

“How did you get all this information?” Garm asked.

“I cannot reveal my sources.”

“This is what I feared. The Ank don’t need military muscle when they can strangle us economically.”

“If Hank has the child, why not simply give it back?” Delovoa asked.

“If it was a gemstone, or a briefcase, or some document, it would be easy. But it’s a baby. Right now, it’s dangerous to walk the streets as a regular citizen—what with junky cyborgs and the Navy having a contest on who can shoot up the most buildings. But moving a child that’s being aggressively hunted is impossible. There’s too many enemies on the board. One stray bullet or explosion and you’ve lost. It’s too risky,” she said.

“It seems to me we’ve made it riskier by getting two assassin teams to lob missiles at one another,” Delovoa said.

“Yeah. Didn’t expect that. Or at least, I thought it would be over a lot quicker. But I’m really concerned who else is out there. The Messahn battlesuit is still the worst adversary. How can you keep a child safe from someone who can teleport? Delovoa, have you had a chance to look over the code to search for weaknesses?”

“No.”

“Garm and I have been vigorously active in our attempts to rectify this troubling situation. What have you been doing all this time?” Rendrae asked.

“I’ve been keeping you secure with my handy shelters. This doesn’t concern me. I’m only helping out of the goodness of my…uh,” Delovoa began.

“Heart?” Garm asked.

“I don’t have one. The organ my species is born with was insufficient for my needs. I have three brains, after all. So I made my own. I haven’t come up with a name for it yet. Squirky Squart? Does that work? I mean, does it sound appealing from a marketing standpoint? ‘Replace your outdated heart with an efficient Squirky Squart from Delovoa.’”

“If this city and this empire collapses, it will affect you,” Rendrae stated.

“Eh. And I’ll remind you, it was my expert thespian skills that got those two groups fighting one another instead of searching for you,” he said.

“Yeah,” Garm said, thinking. “It can’t have been the Navy or Dead cyborgs that were searching through our records. They’ve got their hands full. It might have been the ground team for the Messahn battlesuit. Hell, it might even be the operator inside!”

“The operator is little more than a pile of organs and a nervous system. The only way he could exit the armor would be with the aid of a hospital full of medical technicians. And even then, he would need to be immediately encased in life support,” Delovoa replied.

“Okay. Then it’s probably the support crew. Which makes things trickier. If we can catch them poking around and eliminate them, that would be half our problem gone. Then it would be a lot safer to try and move the Ank child and be done with all this,” she said.

“How would disabling a ‘support crew’ impact such a capable assassin?” Rendrae asked.

“Because of what Delovoa said: the operator is just a spleen and gallbladder, or whatever. It can’t go around asking questions and combing through records. It can’t even get inside government offices without scans and IDs. Not only that, but clerks don’t like assisting illegal combat body armor that’s wanted by every law enforcement in the galaxy.”

“That situation is no different from half the denizens in this city,” Rendrae countered.

“These are petty crooks. Middle tier at the very most. No one off this planet gives a damn about the people of Belvaille. And really, no one gives a damn on this planet. But the Messahn battlesuit has completed a…lot of assassinations. Entire quadrants don’t like this guy. And there’s been a city-wide security bulletin out on him since the Massacre.”

“Then how can we find his support staff? I doubt they will announce themselves ahead of time and Delovoa’s cameras can only evaluate their feces,” Rendrae said.

“Boys, it looks like we’re shifting from counterintelligence to assassination,” Garm stated.



When an intelligent species evolved and developed language, at first, they didn’t need much to differentiate each individual within their society.

You could be known as the guy with red hair. That’s all it took for your small family to know you, because no one else had that particular physical characteristic.

As family units mixed and merged, they came up with words for those traits. Tro might mean red, and since they didn’t want to confuse things, Trezo would mean someone with red hair. So that would be your name. And Trezo would be enough to mark you as unique within your tribe of six families that never travelled more than a few miles.

But as that population grew and lifespans increased, they had to start adding more details. You became Trezo the Younger, to distinguish you from that other Trezo in the village. Later, you were referred to as Trezo of East Snorpville, as the town grew.

Then of course, that wasn’t good enough. There were Trezos all over the place. You had to be Trezo-Mappa-del-Snorptania the Third.

As populations expanded and expanded and became modern, no amount of words alone were sufficient. There were tens of thousands—millions—of Trezos of every shape and shade. And by sheer numbers, some would possess your exact same name, no matter how much you added.

As that original population took to the stars and inhabited planet after planet, no one even bothered with your name other than your immediate family and friends. There had to be all sorts of complex identity management systems handled by computers to establish who you were. Serial numbers, biogenic markers, and digital signatures. No one cared what color your hair was.

But a strange thing happened. As intelligent races bumped into other intelligent races and began to comingle, the concept of identity regressed.

The Colmarian Confederation had over 40,000 unique species spread across countless planets. And the populations freely travelled amongst them.

At this point, Trezo could not only be the single red-headed person in a city, he might be the only person with an actual head—everyone else possessing some other sort of anatomical organizational method.

While the Confederation relied upon robust identity markers via tele, that was handled behind the scenes and far too complex for anyone to use personally. You couldn’t call out to your friend in a crowd by rattling off her 24,000-character public encryption key. You’d die of dehydration before you ever got her attention.

Because everyone looked so unique in the melting pot Colmarian Confederation, a simple physical description was sufficient to establish identity—at least in conversation.

So Hank could be Hank. Garm could be Garm. Rendrae was Rendrae. And so on. Those names were almost entirely unique on the city and planet of Belvaille. If any others shared the names or similar pronunciations, a quick description would easily distinguish them.

The galaxy was back to village-level identity because there was almost no chance of any two citizens looking remotely the same.



Dosul-Demare was chatting up the manager in a store that specialized in micro-tubing.

“I keep reading stories produced by this Ren-darr-aye person. Do you possess knowledge about it?” Dosul-Demare asked.

“Rendrae. He’s a news guy. Reported factor? Not sure what you call his job, ’zactly. He writes articles. Not funny ones. Articles on things that happen in true life. He is round. Green,” the manager said, giving exactly enough name and description that Rendrae was totally unique among 2.5 million alien inhabitants.

“I see. A reporter. Does he work alone?” Dosul-Demare asked.

“I don’t know. I’ve only spoken to him seven or eight times. And only when there was something going on around here. Like one time someone was stabbed over yonder,” the manager said, pointing.

“Did you tell him what he was inquiring about?”

“Yeah. We all do. Rendrae is a factor reporting. He tells us what we do in the daytimes of our lives.”

“Do you know where I could locate him? I have some facts to report.”

“No. He comes to you. He knows when you have factors,” the man said, tapping his own oblong skull with his sponge-like tentacle.

“I fully understand your meaning. Sir, I am new to this city and its environs. There appears to be an awful lot of commotion about. With firearms discharging and property impaired. Are you privy to the cause of this quarrel? Or is it always like this?” Dosul-Demare asked.

“It’s like this all the time. More some, less others. In Belvaille, before you go out, you check the weather. It can change right fast and leave you cold or hot or wet. And you also check if there’s a gang war going on so you don’t get killt,” the manager replied.

“The disturbance seems to involve the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6%.”

“Nammondia? Can’t say I know that. Just keep your head down. Most the gangs, they try not to shoot us locals. Because we sell ’em micro-tubing and what have you. They’re good folks when they ain’t killin’ each other.”

“Anything else I should be aware of?”

“Oh, if you see a guy the size of a house—except fat and bald—head the other way quick. Because that fella is Yard Stuck Tank.”

“Why do they refer to them as that?” Dosul-Demare asked.

“I reckon he gets stuck in folks’ backyards on account he’s so big. But there’s always shootin’ ’round him. Even if it’s quiet when you see him, you wait a hot minute and there’ll be shootin’,” the man added.

“That is disturbing to hear. But I graciously extend my thanks to you for this insightful advice,” Dosul-Demare said, and left the building.

Dosul-Demare was a non-descript Colmarian. Arms. Legs. The only thing remotely noteworthy about him was his fresh-faced appearance. He was clearly past puberty, but only just.

But that wasn’t really the case. Dosul-Demare had a rare hormonal illness. He would spontaneously age, becoming a senior citizen in just a few years. And—if he didn’t die—then his body would overcorrect, and he would become a twenty-something in a few years. Back and forth over and over.

Because of his condition, Dosul-Demare was operating as a member of the golden assassin’s ground team. He was specifically the information gatherer. He found out details of the target. The city. Movement patterns. And anything that required integrating with the population and moving around.

While the Messahn battlesuit was an unmatched assassin, it couldn’t stand around watching an embassy without drawing attention.

It was not easy to fill out the golden assassin’s support crew. For one thing, it had no intention of retiring. It couldn’t even take off the armor, so what was the point? So that meant any member of the group would never get the usual chance of moving up the ranks to full-fledged assassin, because the battlesuit was never going to stop until it was destroyed.

Most people were not comfortable with that arrangement. Those that were comfortable, however, died.

One of the side effects of being such an accomplished assassin was that authorities were aware of you. If someone was assassinated, people tended to notice. They might not recognize it was the Messahn battlesuit responsible, but that wasn’t always necessary.

Every spaceport did a complicated series of scans on every arrival. This was to filter out the inordinate amounts of diseases, viruses, bacteria, and whatever else that could decimate a population. But it also meant they had scans of everyone.

The galaxy was big. It had a lot of people in it. Those were, obviously, gross understatements.

The travel patterns of biological life were so erratic and so vast, that the chances of there being overlap in individuals at the time of an assassination were astronomical.

So if you took the scans—simply who was there—in a city when someone was assassinated, and then cross-referenced them to the scans of another city that experienced a similar assassination, if there were any matches, you’d have your assassin.

It was that easy.

It didn’t matter if there were ten million aliens in the city or you checked over the course of a month. If you found any matches, you would either have the identity of your assassin, a member of their team, or a terribly unlucky vacationer.

The Messahn battlesuit was so effective because it could turn invisible and teleport. No one could catch it. But the same couldn’t be said for its helper agents. No matter how good they were, they weren’t that good. And while they possessed all manner of false identifications, they couldn’t escape scans.

The Messahn battlesuit had been involved in twenty-three official assassinations. A truly gigantic accomplishment in the arena of contract killing.

However, in the course of its work, the golden assassin had lost seventy-two of its own support personnel. So, if you didn’t include the Belvaille Massacre, the Messahn battlesuit had gotten significantly more of its own team killed than it had ever killed any assassination targets.

Working for the golden assassin was more dangerous than being marked for removal by it.

Dosul-Demare was able to escape that fate because of his randomly changing biology. He did not scan the same. Not because his own body changed his DNA, but because the medicines he took to keep himself alive changed it.

It was why he was working with an assassin to begin with—his treatment was incredibly expensive and incurable.

Dosul-Demare had been employed by the Messahn battlesuit for the last century and a half. Everyone else who had been on the team when he started had been apprehended, jailed, or killed.

Even if Dosul-Demare was captured, it would be difficult to prove he was involved because he was, at the biological level, not the same person every couple of years.

While he could not turn invisible or teleport, Dosul-Demare was almost completely impervious to modern security systems. He got a new ID every few years and there was no indication, anywhere in the galaxy, he had ever existed before.

Dosul-Demare was not exactly sloppy or reckless, but he was confident in his anonymity. For anyone to possibly discover him they would have to be a technological genius, an information gatherer at least as good as himself, and perhaps an expert in the finer points of assassination. And it was impossible for one person to have all those qualifications.

Unfortunately for him, Delovoa, Rendrae, and Garm did possess those traits—when serendipity caused them to pool their resources. And they were now monitoring Dosul-Demare’s movements closely.

It had started with Garm. She got in touch with her Quadrad sisters, on her home world of Quadrad, in the Quadrad organization. They had records of the Messahn battlesuit. They did not know all of the golden assassin’s exploits, but they knew a bunch. It was one more instance where Garm’s peers were jealous of her. Not only did she have the perfect cover in the perfect city, she was getting to “rub shoulders” with the premier assassin in the galaxy.

Garm realized that anyone who couldn’t bodily do field work other than kill people would require operatives to assist on the ground. She found that many of the Messahn battlesuit’s team had been captured in the past. That was not secret information. Authorities loved to parade those arrests around in the hopes it would make up for the fact they couldn’t stop the assassination to begin with.

The golden assassin’s impressive résumé was growing ever longer, yet no one working with it had been captured for some time. Therefore, Garm deduced that the support team had to possess certain skills. If they could go invisible and teleport, they wouldn’t be backing an assassin, they might as well be assassins themselves. No, it had to be something less combat oriented.

Garm had known of shapechangers in the past, and she went to look at Belvaille’s own scans to see if she could find any biological anomalies.

But it was Rendrae who brought it together. Everyone, literally everyone in the city, was part of Rendrae’s correspondent team. Not only did all the officials and criminals want to curry favor with the reporter and get good write-ups in his paper, people actually enjoyed speaking with him.

Rendrae knew everything about everyone and what was going on in the city. If you liked to gossip—and everyone did to some extent—then Rendrae was fun to talk to.

And word had filtered up to Rendrae that there were lots of people inquiring about him, personally. At first, he didn’t pay much attention. There were always self-interested parties looking to feed him stories. But when Rendrae learned all these people asking about him were of the same general appearance and manner of speaking—yet of slightly less age at each retelling—he told Garm and they began to search.

Dosul-Demare did not cover his tracks. He felt he didn’t have to. Not only that, but he wanted Rendrae to find him. That was the whole point. From everything he heard about the reporter, it would be a trivial matter to deal with him. Maybe as simple as an exchange of information to learn where the Ank baby had last been taken. And then he would pass that to the Messahn battlesuit and be off to the next job.

Dosul-Demare was not a fighter. He stayed well removed from the messy enterprise of actually carrying out an assassination. While Hank and MTB had dangerous reputations, there was no indication whatsoever that Rendrae was directly working with them. The reporter prided himself on being an unbiased observer who did not actually participate in the news he covered.

So the Messahn battlesuit’s field operative sauntered down the street without a care. Well, he had many cares, including a terminal disease that cost millions of credits a year to stave off. But he didn’t have any concerns about being discovered by a spherical reporter.

Garm had pictures of Dosul-Demure—dozens—taken from security cameras at government installations. It was not easy cross-referencing them, because he was not the same person as of one week ago. But he looked almost the same. His face and body were nearly identical.

That was actually one of the big flaws in modern security systems. A single shift of DNA, representing a fraction of a fraction of a fraction of a percent difference, was enough to make you 100% unique. But that was the kind of slow metamorphosis that Dosul-Demare experienced.

The biggest giveaways, however, were Dosul-Demare continued to speak in the same dialect, and he didn’t change his clothes. He did not bring an infinite wardrobe to Belvaille and he didn’t buy new garments every day.

So Garm had pictures of ten people, with slightly different biological data, who were inquiring about the Belvaille Massacre, and who talked the same, looked almost the same, and were wearing the exact same blue jacket.

It was such an odd condition that they assumed they were a family—identical dectuplets. Delovoa, that bioengineering wizard, explained the rare genetic condition that could be responsible.

Even still, they wanted to be sure. For the first two days, they monitored Dosul-Demare from as safe a distance as possible, using telescopes, drones, and existing surveillance cameras. They were not scared of the youthful inquisitor. They were scared of who he was inquiring for.

If they were right, somewhere behind this guy was the most accomplished assassin the galaxy had ever seen. One of the reasons they had been hiding underground, slowly being poisoned by dirty gym socks, was to avoid being found by that assassin.

And now they were one degree removed from him—and that fact put them all on edge. Even the normally unflappable Delovoa was flapped. Because his three brains told him that all his traps, guns, and gear wouldn’t be a match for the Messahn battlesuit—at least not without killing himself in the process.

Over two days of following the information gatherer they learned the man was unarmed, clumsy, and seemed almost bored with his job.

To Garm he appeared…easy. So easy that it made her incredibly nervous.

The big fear was that the Messahn battlesuit was watching all this play out. That this bumbling man with an inborn ailment was an elaborate trap put forward to tempt them out of hiding. And even if he wasn’t a trap, if he was able to call the golden assassin to assist him, he didn’t need to be proficient.

Under normal circumstances, Garm had people tailing Hank and keeping tabs on his location. She always wanted to know—roughly speaking—where Hank was. Garm would never admit it to anyone, not even herself, but she wanted that information because if things got bad and she needed a lifesaving hand, Hank was the one to call. He was not caring or smart or even especially qualified, but he was an unstoppable juggernaut and every malcontent on Belvaille got out of his way or paid the consequences. She did not need his services very often, but Garm always liked to be prepared.

That said, if Garm was suddenly friends with the golden assassin, she would quickly switch allegiances and not bother with Hank at all—who was a headache at the best of times. So if she would do that, she assumed Dosul-Demare would do likewise and had the assassin on the equivalent of speed dial.

Dosul-Demare simply appeared calm. He was attempting to gather data on assassinating a royal infant and he seemed about as engaged as if he were mopping a floor. Admittedly, this was probably the sixth or so assassination he had been involved with, but still.

He was either a tremendous actor, he was confident his disguise wouldn’t be uncovered, or he had a teleporting, invisible assassin armed with antiparticle beams ready to back him up. And if they guessed wrong on how and why Dosul-Demare was so relaxed, that would be the end of this little adventure. “Adventure” being a euphemism for a living, breathing existence.

On the third day, they had given up on the long-distance surveillance of Dosul-Demare and were now up close. Garm was personally tailing him.

She was wearing a disguise. It wasn’t a confounding scramble of her DNA like Dosul-Demare was capable of, but it was as good as Quadrad training could accomplish—which was quite good.

She appeared to be an elderly, alien, woman…thing. Garm knew how to apply just the right touches to be authentic, yet also off-putting enough that people didn’t stare. With 40,000 species in the Colmarian Confederation, she had all sorts of configurations to choose from. She had a hunchback, a mass of scraggly facial hair, and a tattered robe that looked like it was two hundred years old—because it was.

Garm tottered a discreet thirty feet behind Dosul-Demare, using a distinctive gait, assisted by a cane, that made people on the sidewalk give her a wide berth. She had a hearing aid in one ear, a radio listening to folk oldies music around her neck, and a transmitter communicating with Rendrae and Delovoa in the other ear. She wanted many frequencies and disturbances emanating from her in case anyone could eavesdrop.

Rendrae was too difficult to disguise. He was simply a giant ball and it was hard to make that anything else. Therefore, he was thirty stories up peering out of the balcony of a high-rise apartment complex. He had strobe lights and radios and umbrellas around him and he was swaddled in blankets. All his precautions made the balcony in question look like it was hosting a slumber party/rave.

Rendrae was peering down with a set of binoculars and keeping in touch with his many contacts in the city.

Delovoa had switched locations and was in a different hiding spot in a different underground bunker. The others wanted the scientist to be more accessible, but he refused. Under no circumstances was Delovoa going to be anywhere near the golden assassin. He didn’t even tell Rendrae and Garm where exactly he had gone, just in case they were captured and interrogated.

His location was an old maintenance system access point that was conveniently close to public transportation as well as a nearby morgue. The area had experienced a series of cascading technical failures and been deemed hazardous and unrepairable so it was abandoned. Of course, it was Delovoa that broke it in the first place so he could take it over.

He liked the room’s easy access to the morgue so he could get first crack at spare body parts. You wouldn’t think there would be much demand for corpses—and you would be correct. But Delovoa had to lay claim before they were incinerated or buried or otherwise made useless for his needs. And then he could just hop over and use the public transit to get home.

The maintenance room was unbelievably cramped, being only about 100 square feet. It only had a few computer terminals and a small refrigerator for food and severed limbs.

The group had been able to prepare this robust response because Dosul-Demare was not exactly careful. He was systematically making his way across town trying to gather information. And he picked up where he left off the previous days. So it was a small matter to know where he was going, when, and then get ahead of him.

Garm was not easily frazzled, but it was nerve-racking following the man. She was not one to go by hunches or gut feelings or women’s intuition, but this felt like a setup.

As part of her disguise, Garm had on sunglasses that projected an overlay of the city inside the lenses. She had to keep exact track of every escape route in case the Messahn battlesuit made an appearance.

“He’s coming out of the tubing supply now,” Rendrae said on the communicator. “The clerk said he was asking about me and the fighting going on in the city.”

“You think he didn’t know the Navy is fighting the Dead of Nova Ammonium?” Garm asked. From a distance, it looked as if she was chewing her thick mustaches instead of talking.

“I can’t be certain. The shopkeeper is not a fundamentally sound informant. I must say, however, this man does not appear to be an assassin. And I have encountered many over the years,” Rendrae stated.

“No, you’ve met contract killers. Big difference. And he’s not the assassin. He’s just a part of the team that assists,” she said.

“How many battlesuits are we talking about?”

“One. Probably. Hopefully,” she replied.

“None of the bathrooms around your present location have anything unusual going on,” Delovoa said.

“I don’t care about the damn bathrooms,” Garm muttered.

“I know you don’t. I’ve watched you.”

“Can’t you scan him?” Rendrae asked.

“I don’t have anything in this street other than some high-altitude humidity monitors, some barrier discharge ionization detectors, neutrino pseudocumene scintillators, and some electron chromatographers.”

“What’s all that do?” he asked, frustrated.

“The humidity monitors determine how much moisture is in the air. The weather forecasts in this region are terrible. I never know when I need a jacket.”

“I was referring to all that other confusing stuff you mentioned,” Rendrae said.

“Oh. They probably give everyone in the upper stories of those tall buildings brain cancer,” he said.

“I’m in the upper story of a tall building,” Rendrae replied.

“Yeah.”

“Knock it off, guys. We need to be serious,” Garm said.

“If the man you’re following has a gun, it’s not energy-based,” Delovoa added. “Though most guns aren’t. However, if the Messahn battlesuit is nearby, he hasn’t fired his weapons or gone invisible. So if you see a gold-tinted set of armor with four arms leaning against a light pole, you should probably leave.”

“I’ve spoken with two other people in the thoroughfare ahead of you. They haven’t reported anything out of the ordinary,” Rendrae said.

“I would be careful using a tele so much. They can be traced. Sort of. With great difficulty,” Delovoa said.

“I’m aware. I possess multiple sets of teles. Though I am running out. But I was under the impression we would only be here momentarily,” he replied.

Garm had to hand it to her associates, they were pretty damn good at what they did.

If they couldn’t save the child and they didn’t die, Garm would likely have to change careers and move away. She could officially go into the assassination business and all she would need for a crew was Rendrae and Delovoa. The three of them would instantly be the second most qualified assassin force in the galaxy.

Rendrae could gather information from seemingly anyone, anywhere. Delovoa could build—or destroy—just about anything. And she had significant training in the art of murder as well as contacts within the Quadrad.

Garm had never seriously contemplated becoming an assassin. It was such a difficult, unwholesome career and it required a stellar team. But just the three of them had nearly every angle covered. Yes, they were a pain to work with. Yes, they didn’t like one another or her. But Garm had been an administrator for many, many years and she learned that everyone was a pain to work with at some point or other. The fact that any work got done in any office in any career path on any planet was frankly a miracle.

If they couldn’t save the child and MTB and Hank didn’t die as well, that would be an unbeatable squad. To ease everyone’s consciences, they might only take contracts to remove reprehensible people—which was usually the case, anyway. Wonderful individuals that everyone adored were hardly ever assassinated.

But those were all idle thoughts and Garm needed to stay focused.

As she cautiously moved closer to the meandering Dosul-Demare, there was still a real question as to whether or not he was working with the battlesuit.

It seemed likely. Very likely. But “likely” was an awful low bar when it came to killing someone. What’s worse, they might kill him, think they had thwarted whatever plans, and it turned out they did nothing—other than murder an innocent man.

The best thing they could do would be to apprehend and question Dosul-Demare. Find out where the assassin was, his ship, his paymaster, and his other teammates.

But how did they do that without dying? How did they even know this was the right person?

Garm began to mumble and mutter like the old woman-thing she was pretending to be. Between her invented words and phrases, she said the names of cities or regions that the golden assassin had visited recently.

To everyone within earshot, it was just more background noise. But ears and brains were wacky things.

Subconsciously, most beings were able to filter out sounds and recognize ones that were personally significant while disregarding those that weren’t. They could pluck them out of the air even if the air was saturated with sound.

There were many species, or individuals within species, who were incapable of doing that. But those people did not live in crowded urban environments or they would go insane from being overwhelmed with noise. Or they would get run over because they didn’t hear the sounds that were simple warnings.

For most species, if someone overheard words that meant something to them, it would show.

And Garm was scrutinizing Dosul-Demare for the telltale twitches and turns that meant his brain was picking up the fact that something relevant was being stated in his presence.

But the man suddenly stopped. He turned full around and faced her.

“Did you mention Batterion Klone?” he asked Garm.

That had been the name of a sports hero who had been assassinated to secure victory for the opposing team—some people took their fantasy sports leagues very seriously.

Now it was Garm’s turn to be startled. Of all the responses she had prepared for, this was not one of them. He was confronting her directly. This information gatherer was no rookie.

By her startled hesitation, he deduced what was going on and activated a control on his fingernail and spoke clearly.

“I need help!” Dosul-Demare said.

Garm drew two pistols and aimed. The bulky disguise had hindered her movements and in that split-second delay, Dosul-Demare had hit the ground and rolled. It wasn’t the best combat maneuver, but it put a lot of pedestrians in the way and caused others to move erratically, making a clear shot difficult.

Garm moved forward, quickly shedding pieces of her disguise, which were hampering her abilities.

This was her nightmare scenario come true.

“He’s spotted me. Running. Keep eyes open,” Garm barked. The implication was clear: the assassin was coming.

Garm dodged one shopper, two pets, and a trash can, but she held her fire. Discharging her guns without a clear shot would cause the whole street to scatter in ways that couldn’t be anticipated. Not only that, but on Belvaille, shooting a gun on the sidewalk was a great way to get shot. And she sure as hell didn’t want to add any more enemies to this terrible equation.

Rendrae was monitoring the situation with his binoculars when he saw some shimmering lights. They slowly started to grow and he realized it was the Messahn battlesuit teleporting in.

“Contact. He’s behind you! Half a block. He’s not fully there yet,” Rendrae said.

Garm also heard static on her earpiece but didn’t have time to wonder what it was.

It was Delovoa. He had removed his own microphone and smashed it in case the frequency could somehow be traced to him. He then turned off all his cameras and sat in the dark of his hiding spot. His only weapons were a screwdriver and two pounds of radioactive cobalt he had forgotten were in here.

Garm knew she had mere moments. She didn’t look back, because it didn’t matter. If the assassin spotted her, she was dead.

She kept pursuing Dosul-Demare.

She also began shoulder-shrugging off the backpack that had formed her hunchback.

And she kept one eye on her sunglasses that showed the city coordinates.

Finally, Garm felt she had no choice. Dosul-Demare was apparently an expert at keeping innocent bystanders in her line of fire.

Garm took from her mouth the rubber inserts that had been used to make her face appear jowly. She pulled back the hammer on one of her pistols and wedged the insert behind it, to keep the hammer raised.

She then flung the gun ahead and to the side, where it struck the wall of a store.

The impact caused the insert to fly away, the hammer to drop, and the gun to discharge.

The blast came from a location that Dosul-Demare was not expecting: the direction he was currently headed. This caused him to rise up from his low crouch and retreat. He believed that Garm, or an accomplice, was now in front of him, actively firing.

Garm now had an open shot, and she took it. Her first shot hit center mass on his chest. She put two more in his back and one in his neck as he fell.

Garm activated the device in her backpack and dropped it. She had 1.5 seconds to memorize the details on the insides of her sunglasses.

The device was the main contribution of Delovoa to this endeavor. They didn’t know exactly what senses the Messahn battlesuit possessed. Could it see infrared? Ultraviolet? Could it smell odors? Feel vibrations? Delovoa couldn’t tell what hardware the armor had from the code other than it possessed “some” sensory equipment.

So the device, that had been Garm’s hunchback, pretty much blocked every sense Delovoa could think of.

A black cloud enveloped the street and expanded. Series of small explosions launched reflective foil and tiny molten pellets. Every frequency of sound reverberated, shaking bones and breaking glass. And it smelled. It smelled really, unbelievably bad.

And that was just the stuff that Garm could personally detect. Every individual in the street, whether they had antennae or bronchial wafers or ectodermal receptors, was their species’ equivalent of deaf, blind, and numb.

Garm had to maintain perfect body control while closing her eyes, holding her breath, covering her ears, and being pursued by an unbeatable assassin that wanted her dead.

Forty-three steps to the north. Eighteen east.

Normal, walking steps.

If she ran, or even jogged, her pace would change and the distance would be off. And then when Delovoa’s mess cleared, she would die.

Garm started to panic when she took the last step and nothing was there. She took one more, and felt a strong blow to the midsection that almost knocked the wind out of her.

But it was a good pain. Because she realized it was merely the guardrail to the subway she was trying to reach. Garm had misjudged her steps slightly—which was more than understandable.

She couldn’t hold her breath any longer and took in a quick gulp, trying to filter the air through her shirt. Her mouth, throat, and lungs burned.

She ran down the tunnel to where the vents kept the underground clear. With a brief respite from the inky bomb, she quickly looked up at the subway terminal display. It was four minutes, twenty-three seconds until the next train.

The toxic mist was slowly seeping down into the subterranean depot and people began screaming. It appeared as if actual darkness was moving in a cloud. No visible light penetrated at all. It was not shades of black and gray, like normal smoke, it was completely dark.

Garm jumped onto the subway tracks and ran. She knew there were various maintenance closets and utility junctions but she had no idea how far they were. Her glasses didn’t have that kind of information—or any information—on the actual subway tunnels.

She was risking getting run over by a train, but at least that was an active death. She wasn’t going to stand around for four minutes, waiting for public transportation, and hope the battlesuit didn’t follow her.

She ran and ran, her legs straining, her feet and ankles twisting on the uneven surface. Where were the damn doors, the inlets, the anything? It was just solid concrete everywhere.

The train was coming. She could feel the ground shaking.

Then she saw the lights.

She was running headfirst into a speeding train.

Garm finally saw a door.

She reached it. Tried to open it. But it was locked. Bolted. Barred.

She looked back at the train. It was almost on her. It had no conductors. No engineers. It was a train. It went from point to point on a schedule. Fifty lines of computer code weren’t too much for the Colmarian Confederation and it meant they didn’t have to pay salaries.

So nothing was going to stop that train. Even if it had warning sensors, which it didn’t, it couldn’t stop in time—it was a damn subway. If it could stop in a second, it would injure or kill half the people inside in order to spare the fool on the tracks.

Garm shot the door. She knew the type of locks. If she had four minutes, she could break in silently. But she didn’t have anywhere near that time.

Blam! Blam! Blam! Blam!

She emptied both guns. She wrecked the locks, but the steel crossbar was not fully severed. She rammed it. Kicked it. Pushed it. But she was not a heavy woman or a sledgehammer.

She calculated the speed of the train, the distance, took five steps back and sprinted at the door.

She hit it, bent it inward, and the train clipped her shoulder and shoved her inside.

Garm fell on the hard floor.

She was injured. Not broken. Not dead.

She felt something jabbing her. She thought it was a rat or some other vermin inside the dark room. She took out her tele and shined the light.

Delovoa was repeatedly, and ineffectually, poking her thigh with a screwdriver.

“Delovoa?”

“Damn! What are you doing here? You scared the crap out of me!”

“This is your secret hiding spot?”

“It was. I didn’t predict anyone would hike down an active subway tunnel and barge in. Is the assassin still out there?”

“I don’t know. But we better stay put—at least for a little while. Besides the trains, is this place safe?”

“I suppose. But you’re sitting on a bunch of cobalt-60. So you’ve got gamma radiation shooting up your ass. You might want to skooch over. And close that door!”





CHAPTER 19


Meeting of the Mindless



“The toilet is busted again,” I yelled from the bathroom.

“Stop eating so much fiber!” Fate replied angrily. She was in the other room and clearly fed up with her houseguests.

I walked to join her and MTB. The police detective was in his underwear. He had bags of ice, compresses, and bandages wrapped around and secured to at least 123% of his body. He was lying on his side on the floor, with one leg propped up on a table, and his arm elevated on an old bird cage.

“I have to eat fiber. I need to clear out all that trail mix and dehydrated garbage from our misadventure in the woods. I probably have thirty pounds of that mess sitting in my lower intestine,” I said.

“You don’t have thirty pounds of poop waiting after a week,” she replied.

“No. He probably does,” MTB said.

“It’s not exactly the toilet that’s broken. It’s the support structure thing we put around it. Although the toilet is broken, too,” I said.

“I told you we should have used cinder blocks,” MTB said to Fate.

“I can’t demolish my house in order to build some Hank-proof latrine. I’ll tear it out as soon as you two depart,” she added.

“Assuming we live,” MTB muttered.

“Can you…you know, fix it?” I asked her.

“You fix it. It’s your turn. And it’s your waste. Why am I even on toilet duty to begin with?” Fate asked.

“You’re metal. That stuff washes right off you,” I replied.

“Your skin is exceedingly thicker than mine. There is no way mere urine is going to stain your outer shell when bullets bounce off. I’m sure I already smell like…whatever you two smell like,” she said, nudging the recumbent MTB with her foot.

“If I had been asked to give my estimation,” a voice began from behind us, “on what this expert group would be like and how they would safeguard the next head of the Ank royal family, this is exactly what I would have described. You all have perfectly lived up to my expectations.”

“Delovoa,” I said, seeing the three-eyed scientist. “How did you know we were here?”

“Garm told me.”

“How did she know?” Fate asked suspiciously.

All the time we had spent together on the run gave us plenty of opportunities to swap stories.

We learned much about Fate and her insanely long life. We learned of MTB’s gruesome police work. And the group discovered my favorite foods.

But while trading anecdotes, Fate heard more about Delovoa’s delicious depravity. She was not as appreciative of his character as we were. I think he must have reminded her of some of the unsavory clients of her prostitute past.

“How did you all even find out we were back in the city?” MTB asked.

“Rendrae had someone report that they saw an enormous pile of blubber dragging a rickshaw composed of dead logs. On it were a washed-up police officer, a Dredel Led sexbot, and a jellyfish,” Delovoa explained.

We were all quiet for a moment. That was probably not much of an exaggeration on what the witness described. And the truth was painful.

“I let myself in,” he added. “I need to inoculate you all for our meeting. Where is the child?”

“Whoa. Hold on,” Fate said, getting in front of the scientist.

“Yeah, what do you mean inoculate?” I asked.

“How many definitions for inoculate are there?” he replied.

“I don’t know. I’m not like a…language…guy.”

“You’re not going to inject Sal with anything,” Fate stated firmly.

Delovoa sighed and took out his tele. A holographic video of Garm was projected.

“Hey, guys. You have to let Delovoa inoculate you. We’re going to meet in the sewers. It’s downstream from the treatment plant, so it’s not terribly dangerous, but hepatitis is still on the menu. It’s about the last safe place I can think of. Your house isn’t secure and we need to figure this out. He injected me, Rendrae, and himself already. See you then,” the video explained.

“I’m not really comfortable with this,” MTB said, some minutes later.

Delovoa was poised to deliver a retinue of injections. Fate wanted the detective to go first before she would consent to allowing Delovoa anywhere near Sal.

“Quit squirming,” the mad scientist ordered.

“Hey, what did you do with my blood?” MTB asked.

“I’m not taking any blood. It’s just some boosters keyed to your genetics so you don’t have a reaction when you breathe in a half-century of sewer mold,” Delovoa replied.

“No, I mean before. You took my blood.”

“I take a lot of blood.”

“Willingly?” Fate asked.

“I’m not a slave. Of course I take it willingly,” Delovoa answered, irritated.

“But my blood. What did you do with it?” MTB repeated.

“When was this?”

“He was strapped to a dirty old chair. And you drained so much he passed out. I was like, put some back or he’ll die,” I said, trying to jog his memory.

Delovoa shrugged.

“Can you be more specific?”

“Are we really going to let him inject Sal?” Fate interrupted.

“You said you were going to make some super sharks,” MTB added, now really worried what was going on with his biology.

“Sharks? Wow, I haven’t been into them in ages. I realized it was a rather foolish idea. We don’t exactly have many rivers or oceans nearby,” he chuckled.

“Yeah, I thought it was kind of a bad business plan,” I agreed, glad to see Delovoa could laugh at himself.

“I’m working on squirrels now,” he continued. “Oh, I remember your blood. I sold it later the same day to some weirdo.”

“Weirder than you?” MTB asked, concerned.

“You live on Belvaille. In the Colmarian Confederation. Do you honestly think I’m the weirdest person there is? You and I must belong to some very different fetish and firearms societies,” he said. “All done. Where’s the jellyfish?”

“What about me?” I asked.

“What about you?”

“Don’t I get a shot?”

“You have a mutation that cures cancer and every disease other than bad breath. I can give you a cookie,” Delovoa said.

“Okay.” I actually wanted a cookie. I’d been eating lousy food for so long. I cupped my hand up to my face and exhaled. “I try and take good care of my teeth. But sometimes I forget. I don’t get cavities and my teeth can regrow. Does my breath really stink?” I asked Fate.

“Robot,” she said for the thousandth time, pointing at herself. “Having a working nose is the last thing a pan-species escort would want.”

Delovoa was searching his jacket for my cookie. He looked around for a place to empty his pockets and saw that Fate’s home was filled to the ceiling.

“Hold this,” he said, handing tools and equipment to MTB. He then gave him something slimy and biological. “That’s not mine,” Delovoa said quickly, upon noticing our expressions.

“How is that better?” MTB asked, horrified.

“Gang meeting. I don’t think we should let him near Sal,” Fate said, still in the presence of Delovoa.

“Garm said it was fine,” I replied.

“And how is it he came here and not Garm or that reporter?” she asked.

“Because no one is looking for Delovoa,” MTB replied, still staring in disgust at the strange organ in his hands. “People actually go out of their way to avoid him. What is this?”

“Sorry, I can’t find a cookie. I’m not sure what that is. You can keep it. Where’s the kid? I want to get out of this place. These colors are heinous. First time I ever regretted having three eyes,” he said.

Despite Fate’s protestations, Sal was inoculated. And he didn’t die or turn into a radioactive monster, so that was a good start.

Delovoa gave us instructions to the sewer. We had to go separately, spaced out. There were too many people looking for us and if we travelled in a group, it was even more likely we’d be spotted.



As sewers went, this one was pretty nice.

One of my earliest jobs, in a past life, in another universe, was working in the sewers of a space station. And that was a terrible experience. Because if you thought they didn’t have much room on the surface of a space station, they had a whole lot less underground.

But this Belvaille was an actual planet. They could dig a tunnel a million miles straight down if they felt like it. Maybe not a million. I’m not sure how big planets were. But they’re big. And Belvaille was definitely a planet.

I mean, not definitely. I’d never actually seen it from space. Everyone could be lying to me or playing a very elaborate practical joke. But if they were, joke’s on them, because I have personally helped dispose of actual tons of toxic waste here. So if this place was anything smaller than a planet, then we were all going to die pretty soon.

The maybe-planet Belvaille sewers were large. Spacious. You could drive trucks filled with sewage through them. Which made you wonder just what the hell they thought was going to be living here. If I was capable of jumping, I wouldn’t have been able to jump and touch the ceiling in even the smallest tunnels. And some were truly enormous.

Yeah, it smelled. It was a tough scent to describe. Wet concrete had a smell. A rather pleasant aroma, in my opinion. And if there was mold or fungus or mildew or any of those things, I wouldn’t know. I didn’t see anything obvious. But there were also strong chemical scents here. I’d inhale and then taste it—and it didn’t go away. I felt like I had to chew. I suppose the urge was me trying to wipe off the insides of my mouth. So I was perpetually working my jaw as I walked through this cavernous artificial cavern.

I wished I had shoes. I was walking in treated water. It wasn’t deep. And it didn’t look gross or anything, but it was still waste water.

Before I left, I had contemplated long and hard about trying to wrap my feet in something. Some kind of contraption or material to keep my feet clean and provide grip and keep my toes away from bacteria. I spent like an hour dreaming up what I could use and what it would be. And then I realized my miracle invention was already invented and they were called shoes. And the reason I didn’t wear them was because I only ever got about ten steps before they fell apart.

Some people were meant for boots, some for high heels, some for sandals, and some people walked in streams of hopefully decontaminated, alien piss. Mine was not a glamorous life.

They wanted me to leave after everyone else because I was so much easier to notice and follow. And even gimpy, injured MTB was faster than me.

I had been given directions to the location by Delovoa. He wanted us to memorize them in case we were found and our instructions taken from us. But it was a series of forty-eight twists, turns, doors, and elevation changes made over the course of six miles underground. Maybe someone could remember all that, but that someone wasn’t me.

He left markings—a code—at each junction in case we got lost. He had a separate list of instructions to decipher the markings that he also wanted us to memorize. It was four pages of math equations.

At one point, I was staring at this red line with a series of six numbers and some kind of hieroglyphic thing. We all got lost at least once.

But the flaw in Delovoa’s flawless design was that he only had codes in the directions we were supposed to go. So if you went the wrong way, and you didn’t see any more Delovoa scribbles, you knew you had to backtrack.

I was the last to arrive.

We met in a kind of junction. It was apparently very low underground. I knew that because the ceiling was thirty feet above us. About a hundred pipes and drains connected to here. I recognized some of the pieces from my old days working the sewers. There was an overflow structure and inverted siphon—I think.

We were all here. Delovoa, Garm, MTB, Rendrae, Fate, myself. And of course, Sal, who was safely in the arms of Fate. She had him swaddled in a pink, green, and orange outfit she had knitted herself. She had gotten pretty good at making baby clothes in a relatively short period of time. But she was terrible at picking colors.

“Can we see the child? Is it okay?” Garm asked Fate.

“I don’t want to uncover her in this muck,” she replied.

“I’d like to gaze upon the cause of all this subterranean subterfuge,” Rendrae replied.

Fate showed off the baby for a moment and then covered him back up. I could see Garm give a small sigh of relief.

“How is it you all got together?” I asked, wondering how the scientist, reporter, and Adjunct Overwatch had met up since they were in very different occupations.

“Same way we all did: that kid,” Garm replied.

“It seems that if anyone so much as stands near that infant, they become a target,” Rendrae sighed.

“You guys have any clue what’s going on in the city? Is it a gang war with military hardware?” MTB asked.

“That was us. Me, specifically. I used my artistic abilities of persuasion to provoke the Navy into battling the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6%,” Delovoa said, taking a flourishing bow after he spoke.

“The what?” MTB asked.

“Dead of Nova Ammonium 6%. They’re a mercenary group. Cyborgs. Big, clanky things. They divebombed a shuttle into the Navy base at the water park,” Garm said.

“We saw that. Why would you want them fighting so openly?” Fate replied.

“So they aren’t as free to persecute us,” Rendrae replied.

“How many Navy we talking about?” MTB asked.

“We’re not sure anymore. I’d guess over 8,000 soldiers,” Garm said.

We were all stunned. 8,000…anything searching for us was going to locate us pretty quick.

“Where were you guys hiding all this time?” Garm asked.

“Forest. Woods. Nature. Do you know there’s a village out there? Or there was,” I said.

“Village? Like natives?” Garm asked.

“No. They were exiled criminals,” Fate said.

“Exiled? Who exiled them? From where?” Garm asked.

“We thought maybe you did,” MTB said.

“Me? Why would I exile someone? I’m not even sure I know what that means. If I wanted someone gone, I’d have them killed. Or kick them off the planet. I wouldn’t send them out into the hills. They could simply turn around and walk right back,” she said.

“They were like, serial killers. Remember the Toothpaste Slasher?” I asked.

“And Grandma Gravestone. And the Foster Flayer,” MTB added.

“Yeah. They were all out there,” I said.

“I had wondered where they absconded to. I was interested in an exclusive. Salacious crime reporting is always popular—so long as it’s tasteful. But they simply disappeared,” Rendrae said.

“That’s strange. They were out there in some serial killer resort? Did they attack you?” Garm asked.

“Not really,” I said.

“Hank kind of sat on them all and broke their village,” Fate replied.

“She poisoned their water,” I countered.

“It was definitely a bad time,” MTB said.

“We haven’t had it easy here, either. But you all look like hell. Let’s get a quick combat assessment. I’m at about 70%. I got hit by a train. How about you guys?” Garm asked.

“I’m 50%, tops,” MTB replied. “I got torn apart by a Deviant Midnight Ripper.”

“What’s that?” Rendrae asked, curious.

“Big cat,” he replied.

“As in another serial killer?” the reporter asked, confused.

“No. It was a really large wild animal—carnivore. Lives out in the woods. Terrifying,” Fate said.

“Really?” Delovoa asked, suddenly interested.

“They’re probably extinct by now,” I blurted. I didn’t want Delovoa to start tinkering around with that creature. He’s dangerous enough messing with squirrels and baby sharks.

“I’m not a combat…anything, but I need to get parts and repairs. I’m about 84.3% operational capacity,” Fate said.

“Hank, are you hurt?” Garm asked me.

“Physically?”

“I don’t give a damn if you’re emotionally injured,” she said.

“You should,” I pouted. “I guess I’m at 85%.”

“What’s taking off 15%?” she asked.

“95%, I suppose.”

“Okay, what’s taking off 5%?”

“He’s upset I didn’t give him a cookie,” Delovoa said.

I was still mad about that. I was really looking forward to some sweets. I hadn’t been able to get my usual food or visit my regular restaurants.

“I was shot,” I replied.

“You shot yourself, dumb bastard,” MTB replied.

“Hank ripped off my arm. And he also shot me,” Fate said.

“He shot me, too. Back of the neck,” MTB said.

“What’s going on here?” Delovoa asked nervously. He took out a deathray and backed up, wondering if I was going to shoot him.

“They were accidents. And they’re fine.”

“I’m not fine,” Fate replied.

“Rendrae doesn’t fight and Delovoa doesn’t not hide, so we’re left with one spiritually injured Hank. I don’t really see a way for us to battle our way out of this,” Garm said.

“The big thing, besides the army searching for us, is that gold assassin. No one can do anything to it,” I said.

“We took out one of his field operatives: an information gatherer. That should severely limit the ability of the Messahn battlesuit to actually know where to go. It can’t just teleport randomly and expect to find the child. At least we hope,” Garm explained.

“You know what they say about hope,” MTB replied.

We all stared at him, waiting for him to finish.

“No. What do they say about hope?” Fate prompted.

“I’m a disgraced police officer, how should I know? I was asking you guys.”

“Do we plan on staying in the sewers forever? I don’t think Delovoa has enough inoculations,” I said.

“And I don’t like the idea of injecting things into Sal,” Fate added.

“All infants are inoculated. They’d die the second they were taken into a multi-species habitat, otherwise,” Garm explained.

“I don’t like the idea of him injecting things into Sal,” Fate clarified.

We all nodded.

“Hey,” Delovoa objected.

“I’ve put out word. I have contacted everyone and everything I can possibly contact to let them know there’s an Ank royal child here they need to come collect,” Garm said.

“Sounds like you’re just covering your ass,” MTB said.

“As usual,” Rendrae agreed.

“Oh, I’m already screwed. But Hank can’t sit on the entire Navy, Dead of Nova Ammonium, Messahn battlesuit, and every other assassin in the galaxy.”

“You sure about that? He’s broken my bathroom like five times already,” Fate said. “All of it. Things you never even thought of as actual things, he managed to break.”

“The walls,” MTB said.

“He broke my walls! Like every wall. How does someone even break a wall?”

“Your house is too crowded. There’s no room to move. She’s got a thousand pets. Snakes and ferrets and birds. I thought it was noisy in the jungle,” I said.

“Do you have any sharks?” Delovoa inquired.

“I don’t know who is going to come or if anyone is going to come,” Garm began.

“Could be a hundred other assassins,” MTB said.

“Yeah, it could. And I don’t like doing nothing. But we can’t dream of fighting the Navy. And they want that kid,” she said.

“Is it the whole Colmarian Navy?” I asked.

“No. Couple bad ones going off books. They’ll be executed the moment this is discovered,” she said.

“That makes them way more dangerous,” MTB replied.

“Yeah, that’s what I was telling these two. Whoever gave those orders is desperate. And they will burn this city down to escape the noose. We can’t go up against that level of fear armed with that much firepower. Not while trying to protect a baby,” Garm said.

As if on cue, Sal began crying. His little bass moan. That momentarily distracted everyone. Garm and Rendrae approached, and took turns trying to sooth the child. We all did. We were in the sewers, running for our lives, and we suddenly remembered we had an adorable baby with us. It was a very welcome reprieve. Even Delovoa seemed to be cheered up, and he tickled Sal’s little feetsies.

“You said my house wasn’t secure. Do they know where I live?” Fate asked, once Sal had settled down

“Not sure. But it’s just a house.”

“It’s a zoo,” I said.

“With holes in every wall and the remnants of a toilet, yes, I know,” Fate replied.

“I think we have to keep moving. Maybe split up,” Garm said.

“That sounds like the setup to a bad horror movie,” MTB replied.

“None of us are combat-ready—except Hank. And when he fights, he’s more likely to shoot us than the enemy. And even if we were all peak condition, armed and ready, we can’t beat any one of the many teams hunting for that child. So our best bet is to not be found,” Garm explained.

“Can we take Sal to the Upper City?” Fate asked.

“No,” Garm replied quickly.

“We tried to tell her,” I said.

“Yeah, and I don’t understand why not. People can’t fight up there, right?” she asked.

“They are physically prevented from fighting,” Garm began. “But that doesn’t make them nice. Half the empires up there are involved in full-scale, scorched-earth genocide of each other. In fact, there’s a decent chance that whoever put out the contract on the Ank royal family is sitting up there right now. But most importantly, there is only one way to reach Upper Belvaille.”

“That shuttle,” MTB said.

“So you think they’ll try and sneak on the shuttle if they know Sal is there?” Fate asked.

“No, they’ll just shoot it down—either coming or going. And, according to the Boranjame that sent Hank to another universe—which is a pretty impressive entry on your résumé—that city is nothing but bad. Can’t you all go back in the woods with Sal?” Garm asked.

“We never did resolve the upcoming draft picks for the next season of Clumpy,” I said.

“What?” Garm asked.

I noticed MTB vigorously shaking his head no, indicating Garm should not inquire further.

“We were entirely unable to deal with nature,” Fate said.

“You were there for a considerable period of time. Completely off the grid,” Rendrae said.

“To give you an illustration of our woodland survival skills, we would have certainly died if we hadn’t accidentally bumped into a commune of mass murderers. That’s how bad we were,” Fate explained.

“Yeah. They should have like a warning out there,” MTB stated.

“Warning on what?” Delovoa asked.

“I don’t know. The trees. Or the edge of the city. Tell people not to go because you’re going to get killed by insects,” MTB replied.

“Or fall off a cliff or drown in a swamp,” Fate added.

“Or eaten by a Deviant Midnight Ripper—which are now extinct,” I said, looking nervously at Delovoa.

“But what about that village? You’d be safe there. And no one knows about it. I sure as hell didn’t,” Garm said.

“I think they probably closed shop. They’re headed back to Belvaille,” MTB replied.

“They are? Why?” Rendrae asked.

“It was kind of how we managed to escape. We had to persuade them it was safe to return to the city and that they shouldn’t eat us,” I said.

“And how does the Adjunct Overwatch feel about the arrival of infamous serial killers? Does that concern you?” Rendrae asked, and it was clear he was recording her response.

“First, turn that crap off before I kill you,” she began. Rendrae cleared his throat and did so. “Second, if you didn’t notice, we’re in a sewer. The reason we’re down here is because an actual army is shooting grenade launchers in our streets this very second. I have to prioritize my concerns. And a woodland village of dangerous people doesn’t make the top hundred at this point.”

“Fair point,” Rendrae stated.

“We’re running out of places to hide,” Garm said.

“Especially if no one is coming to rescue us,” MTB said.

The scientist held his tele up to MTB.

“Is this a Deviant Midnight Ripper?” he asked.

“They’re extinct,” I said.

“Dude, look at me,” MTB said, highlighting his injuries. “Do you think that could toss me around like a doll owned by a kid who hates dolls, and whose parents are going through their twelfth divorce?”

“Nice,” Garm said.

“You described it as feline,” Delovoa replied.

“But that’s a house cat,” MTB said.

“Delovoa, do you have any more spots we can hide out?” I asked.

“Nope. Most of my remaining facilities would kill that child if it went there,” Delovoa said.

“MTB, do you know of any locations? How about your home?” Garm asked.

“I blew my house up trying to take out the assassin,” he said.

“Did it work?” Rendrae asked.

“I don’t know. This was weeks ago. Before we were really out in the forest. I got a tele notification it went off.”

“The Messahn battlesuit has definitely been active since then,” Garm said.

“You lost your house?” I asked him, shocked.

“Yeah,” he said, shrugging. “But I also didn’t like my neighbors. So I was working multiple angles on that one. I also have insurance.”

“Bomb insurance?” Fate asked.

“Sister, I got the works. This is Belvaille,” he replied.

“Certainly the Adjunct Overwatch has access to spare buildings. I see government offices vacant all the time—wasting our money,” Rendrae said.

“Whose money? The problem is, I can’t just walk into those sites. I don’t even know where they are because it depends on what department has reorganized or downsized or whatever. I’d have to request access and the whole point is it has to be secret. Nothing in the government is hidden for long.”

“Is the plan to sit down here until help arrives? I don’t think this is very healthy for Sal. Not to mention you all,” Fate said.

Garm sighed.

“I’ll go back to screaming for assistance. And I’ll try and come up with some other spots I can appropriate for ‘Sal.’ But there is one piece of good news—I hope. In five days, we have the Diplomatic Conclave of Migratory Self-Determination and Economic Diffusion.”

“The what the what?” I asked.

“The summit. How is that going to help?” MTB asked.

“I don’t know that it is. But a lot of foreign diplomats and their helpers are going to be here. And they tend to get nervous when an entire embassy is slaughtered.”

“Do you believe they’ll rescue Sal?” Fate asked.

“Half those empires are in debt to the Ank. They’re probably happy they got killed,” MTB said.

“Far more than half are indebted. Ank are the premier bankers of the galaxy,” Rendrae stated.

“At the very least, there will be a lot more important people and ships here. They’re already arriving and banging on my door to find out what the hell is going on,” she said.

“Perhaps you should be conversing with them instead of lounging in a sewer, Adjunct Overwatch,” Rendrae said.

“Just cool it, guy. This isn’t a broadcast political debate. You’re not scoring any points with anyone,” I said.

“With all those empires here, in person, it’s not just me shouting across tele channels and waiting for someone to answer. I can personally go petition them. And I’ll feel a bit safer doing so, because it’s not likely that these various assassins will risk adding more and more empires to their hit lists,” Garm said.

“Each of those empires is gonna have their private security teams. I can’t imagine trying to pull off an assassination during a galactic summit,” MTB said.

“I couldn’t imagine anyone slaying an entire embassy, but they did,” Fate replied.

“Also, more Colmarian Navy are coming,” Garm began.

“Oh, splendid. They can blow up the rest of the city where the other team left off,” Rendrae stated sourly.

“No. These forces aren’t tied to the…very extensive battle group of Uso-Reese,” Garm said.

“Who?” MTB asked.

“He is the gentleman in charge of the military currently occupying our beloved metropolis,” Rendrae explained.

“I can file a complaint with the Navy and let them know what Uso-Reese has been up to. Putting more pressure on the centurion advocate could help,” Garm said.

“So what do we do in the meantime? My feet are starting to change colors standing in this sludge,” I said.

“Go back to Fate’s. Not all at once, obviously. And keep a low profile,” Garm answered.

“You told us it wasn’t safe,” Fate said.

“Just for a short while. A few days at the most. This was just a checkup. We weren’t even sure if Sal was okay. Now we’ve got a better sense of what our options are,” Garm said.

“Hide or die,” MTB groused.

“Yes. I’m totally willing to hear any options, suggestions, or anything,” Garm replied.

“Imagine a jellyfish-like royal infant outfitted with the most lethal weaponry in existence. A startling combination of biological enhancements, motorized innovation, and sleek, stylish, baby-care devices. I call it, ‘The Salinator’!” Delovoa declared.

We all gazed blankly at the scientist.

“Are we to forgather back here in a few days? What precisely is the schedule?” Rendrae asked.

“They’re going to Fate’s. We need to find a more permanent shelter and do our best to rally some assistance,” Garm replied.

“Hey, Rendrae. Couldn’t you write some sob stories to drum up support?” MTB asked.

“I have been rather occupied with avoiding destruction. And publishing about the child is what put me in jeopardy in the first place. Besides, the readership of Belvaille is not inclined to be supportive when they might otherwise procure a fortune by being disobliging,” Rendrae said.

“Not stories for here. No one on Belvaille is going to help. But out there? Does anyone off this planet read your paper?” I asked.

“Of course. I have…vast, far-spanning…subscribers,” Rendrae stated unconvincingly.

“Could you write an article for another outlet? Maybe one not so local? That way we could really get word out and put pressure on the politicians who are coming for the summit,” Fate suggested.

Rendrae sputtered and stammered. He could barely comprehend writing under someone else’s masthead.

“We’ll talk it over on our end,” Garm offered. “Let’s everyone get back. I’m sure Hank is hungry and, after being clipped by a train, I’m not sure I could outrun him at this point. We’ll be in touch as soon as we have something more definite. Just keep that kid safe.”

“What do you think we been doing?” MTB asked, offended.

“Besides getting shot by Hank and living in a town populated by exiled serial killers?” Garm asked.

“Fair points,” MTB replied.

“Good luck, everyone,” Fate said.



Garm got Rendrae to write an article on the plight of Sal. She convinced him it would be a great opportunity to pilfer the subscribers from another service. Once they read his brilliant reporting, they would be converted into devotees of The News: More Truthful Than the Truth.

Delovoa was studying the software for the golden assassin, trying to find flaws. He was also designing weapons that might help against the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6%. And, of course, he was keeping his eyes on the city’s bathrooms in case anything suspicious should occur.

Garm, herself, had her hands full. Only the security personnel from the delegations wanted to speak with her. But they were mere functionaries and flunkies. They weren’t in a position to offer Sal any kind of support in return.

She was also attempting to file an official complaint against Uso-Reese. Such a form was unbelievably lengthy and complicated. It wasn’t because they were trying to dissuade whistleblowers, it’s simply that the Colmarian Confederation, and its military, were enormous. One form had to be able to handle everything from sexual harassment, to atmospheric photonic theft, to obfuscation of religious mnemonic visions amongst semi-sentient, indigenous, aquatic vegetation.

Submitting the document wasn’t easy. The vast majority of Navy around Belvaille reported to Uso-Reese. So her complaint would actually filter back up to him before it went anywhere. And, of course, he would quash it.

Not able to make any headway with local delegates and unable to reach any neutral military officials, Garm left the planet and went into space.

She was going to personally speak with whomever she could. And she would try and make contact with the division Inspector General who could investigate Uso-Reese. Garm didn’t like taking these steps, not least of all because she would no longer be able to assist on the ground.

But on the bright side, she would already have a head start in the very likely event she had to make a quick getaway.





CHAPTER 20


Metal Mugging



Back at Fate’s, things were not easy but they weren’t exactly catastrophic.

The big problem was supplies. Sal needed a lot. But we couldn’t just get a delivery of raw fish and diapers to the lone dwelling surrounded by warehouses. We tried. And every time we placed the order, they thought it was a practical joke.

MTB told us that even if we were successful, if anyone was monitoring those purchases, they would be able to pinpoint Sal.

While babies needed regular care, I needed way more in terms of materials. I ate a lot. It wasn’t my fault. I burned a lot of calories.

“Certainly not due to cleaning the bathroom,” Fate said.

“Or helping around the house,” MTB added.

“You guys made it clear I wasn’t supposed to do any more cleaning. So now that I’m following your instructions you’re pissed off?” I asked.

“I wish I could get this piss off,” Fate said. “How can anyone produce so much waste? I’m being completely serious. It’s like magic. There is no way any biological life can produce this much. He has to be sneaking out and stealing some.”

“Yeah, because I’m so sneaky. Always tiptoeing around,” I said. “Anyone up for a game of Clompy?”

“Please go in the back if you’re going to do that again. You’re ruining my floors,” Fate said.

“We also need to do another firearms training session,” MTB said.

MTB was giving weapons classes. I think he was trying to get Fate more proficient with guns so she could help back us up.

“No. I’m trying to get it so you don’t shoot me again,” he said.

“That was an accident.”

“I still don’t feel he should be permitted to have a gun. We have a child present,” Fate said.

“I’m not twirling it around or anything. It’s sitting in a cabinet,” I replied.

I heard her walk down the hallway and I gritted my teeth in anticipation.

“What happened in here?” she called.

“What?” MTB replied. He tried to stand up and stumbled. He was still injured—worse than he would admit.

“Yeah, I wanted to tell you about that,” I began weakly. “I was trying to refill the cages because you said you didn’t have time. And some kind of broke.”

MTB limped down the hall to join her.

“Holy hell. It’s like a farm exploded.”

“I think one of the cables was loose and I tripped,” I said.

“Was that what that was? I woke up last night and thought the Dead had crashed another shuttle into the city,” MTB said.

“Yeah. This was last night. Wanted it to kind of be a surprise,” I said.

“What cables? There’s no cables. There isn’t a single cable that can be loose or unloose in this house,” Fate yelled.

“I don’t know. I tripped on something.”

“Probably his own feet,” I heard MTB tell Fate.

Fate returned carrying four smashed cages that were covered in blood and fur. I couldn’t tell if she was mad or not because her face wasn’t very expressive.

“How dare you! What were you thinking?” she asked.

“I’m supposed to be this big problem solver. Yet, I just play Clompy while you guys actually do all the work. I feel useless.”

“Not everyone is good at everything, Hank,” MTB said, moving back into the living room. “You’re good at breaking stuff and-and…lots of other things. We just don’t need that right now.”

“I suppose this is why I have a butler,” I said.

“Oh, man. Can you think how easy this would be if Cliston was here?” MTB replied wistfully.

“What are you going to do about these?” Fate demanded, holding up the cages.

“I’ll get you some new animals,” I said.

“I was fond of these particular ones. I had an emotional connection—as hard as that is to imagine. You killed my pets.”

“It was an accident. I was just trying to be helpful.”

“I’m going out for a walk with Sal,” Fate said, clearly miffed.

“We’re under operational security,” MTB replied.

“Sal has been in the sewers. Or she’s been in here with Hank poop and dead animals. I think she needs some fresh air. I’ll keep her concealed,” Fate replied.

“Check back in an hour,” he said.

Fate hustled off and got Sal. Both the robot and little lord were covered in layer after layer of clothes that obscured everything completely. The only giveaway was her garish selection of colors that only a sort-of-colorblind robot would choose.

“Sorry,” I said, as she was preparing to leave. She did not reply.

“How mad do you think she is?” I asked MTB, once we were alone.

“Is it really that hard to not touch things? Someone as heavy as you shouldn’t have a problem not moving. You put us all at risk. This ceiling isn’t even as good as my old house’s. You could bring this whole building down on us. Of course, you’d be fine. But Sal is just a kid.”

“I know. But I’m going crazy sitting around. What am I even doing here?” I asked.

“Hank, buddy. You’re a mutant. A combat model Ontakian. You were bioengineered for war. But we can’t win this war. Not fighting it directly. We need to keep cool. As for Fate, she’ll be fine. She’s sensible. Anyone that’s lived as long as she has is used to assholes—no offense.”



After two hours of Fate being on her walk, we started to get worried.

MTB paced around with his pistols drawn. I was practically in a fetal position in the kitchen so I didn’t break anything else.

Fate didn’t have a tele. She had nothing. It was so weird that the only way to contact her was with Garm’s radio antenna—which we didn’t know how to use—or by physically speaking to her. Fate was completely disconnected in a modern world. We could go out and look for her, but MTB didn’t have his motorcycle and we couldn’t afford to be seen.

We couldn’t do much except wait.

After another hour, we were desperate. Finally, a kind of scrape was heard at the door. MTB gave me some hand signal, but I didn’t know what he meant. He threw open the door and standing there was Fate.

What was left of her, anyway.

MTB helped her inside. Her face was smashed, practically unrecognizable. She had been shot numerous times. One of her legs had been torn completely off. She was actually using it as a cane so she could walk on her remaining leg. She was battered. Beaten. If you saw her in the trash, you’d assume that’s where she belonged.

“Fate! Thad Elon, what happened?” MTB said.

“Where’s Sal?” I asked.

Fate couldn’t speak. Her head was caved in and she’d lost many of her basic systems.

“Who did this to you? Where are they?” MTB asked.

Fate gestured enough for us to know her attackers were gone. Sal was gone.

MTB helped reassemble Fate. The first thing was to get her hands and arms working. From there, Fate could largely do the repairs herself. She had spare parts, but they were just backups, and not very good in terms of quality.

It took hours before she could even hear us or respond.

“I was mugged. They were waiting. Knew what they were looking for: Sal. They took her,” she said.

“Who?” I asked.

“I don’t know. There were a lot of them. Beat me. I couldn’t…I couldn’t stop them. I tried,” she said.

“It’s okay. Were they cyborgs?” MTB asked.

“Or the Navy? Were they wearing uniforms? What did they look like?” I asked.

“No. Not Navy. They were wearing a lot of the same colors. Same visible light refraction frequency and patterns,” she said.

“What colors? Can you describe them?” I asked.

“I don’t see the same way you do,” she replied. Fate scraped into the kitchen, grabbed some markers from a drawer, and began scribbling on the tile floor.

She created a near-perfect representation of a gang jacket and its insignias. MTB and I shared a concerned look.

“That’s the 483rd Hansen Irregular Mob,” the cop said with a sigh.

“Are they assassins?” Fate asked.

“No. Street gang. Big street gang. Really…unsavory. As you saw,” I said.

“We were a quarter mile from here. It was the back alleys by those giant grain storehouses. No one else around. I was trying to stay away from busy streets. There were eighteen of them. Is that their whole gang?” Fate asked.

“No,” I said. “They’re a big gang. Probably a few hundred of them.”

“Hundred? Try thousands,” MTB said.

“He’d know better than me,” I said.

“What can we do?” Fate asked.

We were both quiet for some time.

“It’s…if they have Sal, that’s kind of it,” I said.

“After I realized I couldn’t stop them…I played dead,” she stated, ashamed.

“You couldn’t fight off eighteen hoodlums,” MTB replied. “Look at you, they ripped you apart.”

“They shot me here,” she said, showing off the hole in the center of her forehead. “I guess they thought that’s where robots keep their vitals.”

“Let’s get you fixed up. I suppose it won’t hurt if we go out shopping now,” MTB said, trying to give Fate a hand.

“No! We have to rescue Sal. I’ll help. I wasn’t armed. I wasn’t ready. We can’t leave her,” Fate said.

“If the 483rd Hansen Irregular Mob has Sal, they probably already killed him,” MTB said.

“But they didn’t! If they were going to kill her, why wouldn’t they do it there in the street? There were no witnesses. They took her. Why take her if they’re just going to kill her later?” Fate replied.

“Because they want to get paid,” I explained. “They’ll make some calls, trying to find the group who hired the first assassins. Then they’ll hold the kid up to the tele as proof. And then…”

“That could take time. We could find her before that,” Fate said.

“We can’t go up against the 483rd Hansen Irregular Mob. They’re massive. They’re…look, they’re really bad people,” MTB said.

“We can try,” Fate said.

“Hank. Tell her.”

“I know it seems like everyone on Belvaille is a crook. No one is a good guy. But we do have rules. But 483rd Hansen, they’re just a mob—it’s right there in their name. They’re not real professionals. They don’t work with anyone. For initiation, they make you murder someone. Some civilian minding their own business. Just to prove you’re their kind of filth,” I said.

“There’s just too many of them. There’s three of us and we ain’t exactly fighting fit,” MTB said.

“Hank, you’re a famous criminal. Can’t you call in some friends?” Fate asked.

“I was thinking about this a few days ago. I’m on friendly terms with a huge number of people in this city. I really am. But in the short while I’ve known you, Fate, you’ve just about met every single person I know who wouldn’t sell me out to get at Sal. There’s a difference between being friendly and being friends.”

“Can’t we try and do what Garm did? Get the Navy to fight them?” Fate asked.

“The Navy and the Dead of Nova are trying to kill Sal. If we let them know where Sal is, they ain’t going to bother rescuing him first,” MTB explained.

“We’re wasting time with you trying to convince me to give up,” she said, clearly getting agitated at our intransigence.

“About fifteen years back, when I was still a cop, I had to investigate a crime. Normally, you can’t ever leave the Hansen Mob. If you try, they kill you. But one of their crew had gotten out. Picked up and left the whole damn planet. So 483rd Hansen goes to where that member used to live and kills everyone on the same floor of their apartment complex. They did that just in case any of the neighbors had been chummy with them. That’s who they is. I hate to say it, but it’s really unlikely Sal is still alive.”

“But that doesn’t mean definitely. Don’t give up! We can still catch them,” she said, desperately.

“Even if we could; even if MTB wasn’t groaning and moaning every time he tried to put on his shoes because a feral cat half-ate him; even if you were all in one piece with five less bullet holes; even if I was somehow, miraculously, capable of catching anyone, we wouldn’t know where to go. A gang that size is spread out everywhere,” I said.

MTB was silent, his face working. Fate caught it.

“You know, MTB. You know where they’ll take her, don’t you?” she asked.

“Like Hank said, they ain’t really a structured group. No big boss or council or voting members. But they have some buildings. Big apartment compounds,” he began.

“Oh, man,” I said, knowing what he was referring to.

“A few move in. Cause a stink, don’t pay rent. So all the normal people move out. And it becomes theirs. We turn off the water, the power, the air, everything. But they don’t leave. If they do any kidnapping, that’s where they take ’em.”

“We can go there. Both of you are combat experts. And you’ve been training me to use a gun,” she said.

“Fate, you haven’t actually fired a gun. We haven’t gotten that far,” he said.

“But that’s simply pulling a trigger. I can do that.”

“You haven’t had anyone shooting at you while you tried to shoot back,” he began.

“Hello? What do you call these?” she asked, pointing at her many bullet holes.

“But Fate, next time they might shoot you in a place where you can’t recover,” I said.

“The Hansen Mob ain’t exactly a cohesive force—they kill each other all the time. But we try and go into that building, there will be 400 scumbags trying to stop us,” MTB explained.

Fate kind of slumped. She was silent for a long while.

“Gentlemen, I’m old. Even before I was saved from my previous life as a…sexbot, I wasn’t actually doing it. Because I couldn’t fake it any longer. I don’t…like…sentient life. You’re awful. All of you. Right now, out there in the city, there are hundreds—thousands—of people killing each other. They’re fighting for the opportunity to murder a baby. Do you think that’s novel? Do you think that’s never happened before? No. It is mundane. It is so typical of ‘intelligent life’ in this galaxy that it’s not even worth noting,” she began.

MTB and I both felt shame. Because we knew she was right.

“I can replace just about everything on me except my mind. And I’ve seen the worst of people—your biological obligations pushed to the utmost extremes. It’s why I’m out here, alone. If I could survive in the forest, that’s where I’d be. Because I’m simply tired of you all. You don’t ever change. You are not worth caring about.”

I was about to ask her something but she went on.

“But Sal! I haven’t seen, got to experience, an innocence like that in a long, long while. You’re not born terrible. That’s clear. And I feel…I care about Sal. And that’s…I haven’t cared about anyone in maybe 15,000 years. I’m going to try and save her. I might die. I probably will. But I just can’t let the galaxy destroy another blameless life without at least attempting to prevent it,” she said.

MTB leaned against the wall, his head down.

“My parents were cops. Their parents. And on and on. I’m not even sure how far back. I come to Belvaille thinking I would change it. I’d be some beacon of honesty and justice. My folks were so proud. But no one changes Belvaille. If you can survive here, the city changes you. I didn’t even notice it.”

He chuckled ruefully.

“I kept clinging to the handful of little things that made me honest. Like I would obey all the traffic laws while I was shaking down store owners. All the other cops thought I was nuts. If someone littered, I’d go crazy and file some twenty-page injunction. While at the same time I was taking bribes from anyone with a pocket.”

He went quiet, reflecting. He was bent over so far he was in danger of falling over. He couldn’t look us in the face and admit this stuff.

“I gave up my own identity, what I believed in, what I was taught, and for what? Money. Not even a lot. When they were throwing the book at me, they laid out all the stuff they found. You know, a spreadsheet of all my crimes. And I was shocked to see how crooked I had become. It was all true. They didn’t even have to make anything up.”

He sniffed a few times.

“My parents—if they had been alive—would have been disgusted by me. I can’t fix what I done. I can’t go back. I’m probably stuck like this. But, you know, I can do right by Sal. He deserves justice. We can try and bring it to this damned place—at least once.”

They both turned to me expectantly.

“I’m not sure how old I am at this point. People will mention something as ancient history and I’ll be like, ‘Not only do I remember that, that was me.’ In all the time I’ve been alive, I haven’t done anything except get in fights and rip people off. I’ve got absolutely nothing to show for my life except being alive. That is my greatest, and only, achievement,” I began.

I stared at my hands. I’m not sure why.

“I mean, I got sent to another damn universe! A chance to start over from scratch. An opportunity no one has ever been given before. And what do I do? The exact same stuff I always do,” I said.

“You’ve helped people,” MTB replied.

“Yeah. Like, once every hundred years I’m dragged kicking into doing something nice. Like this time! I didn’t want to deal with Sal. Garm came to me, asked for my help, and I said no. I told her to get out. She had to threaten me.”

“Sounds like Garm,” Fate said.

“MTB got a spreadsheet of his crimes. They don’t got enough computers for what I’ve done. I’m exactly what Fate is talking about when she says we suck. But, guys, there is almost no chance we can pull this off. Sal is almost certainly gone. And there is nothing in it for me to save him. And there is very, very significant risk in trying. It is all loss, no gain. At the best,” I said.

“So that’s no?” MTB asked.

“Saving a rich, aristocratic kid won’t erase all the crap I’ve done. But saving a kid might. Saving a kid who didn’t do anything wrong—hasn’t even had the chance. I don’t really believe in an afterlife, but if there is one, I’d like for there to be a few things on the good side of that spreadsheet when I’m getting judged. For once, I want to volunteer to do something generous,” I said.

“Not to criticize, but I did kind of ask you, first. And we threw in some heartfelt speeches,” Fate said.

“Yeah, but you didn’t have to threaten me. And it usually takes a lot longer,” I said.

“That’s true,” MTB stated quickly. “As the only bulletproof person here, who regularly breaks houses and threatens entire villages of serial killers, we’re damn glad you’re on board with this very noble deed.”





CHAPTER 21


Assaulting the Mob



We felt we should call the other guys. Normally, we wouldn’t risk it, but Sal was gone. There was no point in being secretive since we no longer possessed what anyone was after.

Garm wasn’t on Belvaille. She hadn’t fled; she was in outer space. She was aboard a Navy ship giving testimony against Uso-Reese, who was still on the planet, doing what he did. She also had plans to personally visit some of the delegate ships, here for the summit, in order to convince them to safeguard Sal.

Garm did send a message, between interviews, that because the 483rd Hansen Irregular Mob wasn’t especially hi-tech, they wouldn’t be able to directly communicate with whoever made the contract. They would therefore have to send a series of messages and wait for someone to get back to them. People organizing political assassinations generally did not want to be openly communicating. And a basic street gang didn’t have the protocols or gear to be truly private.

So Garm suspected we had anywhere from 6 to 36 hours before they killed Sal.

Delovoa came over in person. We were preparing to attack a building populated by sadistic assholes when he came in through the back door.

“Why are you digging trenches and bunkers in your backyard?” he asked. “Do you expect you’ll have to engage in a protracted ground war?”

“That’s Hank,” Fate said sourly.

“It’s a game called Clumpy-Clompy. If we aren’t dead, I can teach you how to play when we get back,” I said.

“No,” he replied.

“Hey, Delovoa. You got any guns or gear that can help us?” MTB asked.

It was then we noticed Delovoa’s knapsack. He opened it and guns, blades, and bombs spilled out onto the carpet. Fate went to pick one up.

“Wait,” I warned her. “Delovoa has a tendency to design weapons that are just as dangerous to the user as the target. What can they use that won’t also hurt them?”

“Ugh. So many requirements,” he complained. “That handgun there will be okay.”

“This one?” Fate asked, picking one up.

“No! Put that down before you kill us all,” he said, backing away.

Fate carefully placed the gun on the floor as we all held our breaths.

“Did you have some work done? Because whoever did it, is a hack,” Delovoa said to Fate.

“Easy. She practically got dismantled trying to protect Sal,” MTB said.

“I can add some rocket launchers. Couple chainsaws. Those legs aren’t doing you any favors. Tank treads. Maybe a small—very small—nuclear device…”

“Delovoa! Focus. We have to fight off hundreds of bad guys without hurting Sal. What do you got?” I asked.

“Nothing. That gun will work. There’s ammunition in there. Low velocity, high impact. Past 30 yards, it’s worthless. But under 30 meters it will turn your average Colmarian into a balloon of gooey mitochondria—and then pop it.”

Fate gingerly picked up the gun in question.

“I also have some information on the Messahn battlesuit,” he said.

“We ain’t going after that,” MTB said.

“I know. But I read through millions of lines of code and if you all get murdered, I will have wasted my time.”

“Alright. Go on,” I said, humoring him.

“The battlesuit has a database of all actions it has ever seen and can anticipate and deal with them.”

“Yeah. So?” I prompted.

“So. If you want to fight it, don’t do anything it’s seen.”

“That armor is likely as old as I am. So it has experienced 100,000 years of fighting,” Fate said.

“Right. Competent people fighting. Wars. Assassinations. Walking around the street. But if you do something it has never seen—ever—it has to write and record that. It doesn’t know how to respond. It can’t react automatically.”

“Maybe Garm could do stuff like that. But we’re not her,” MTB said.

“No. I’m not saying do anything skillful. As that lopsided, underpowered robot stated, it has likely seen a hundred millennia of physical responses. Everything from rudimentary to fantastic. You have to do things no one has ever done,” he explained.

“That’s…really helpful, Delovoa. You’ve given us one pistol, and told us that to defeat a super assassin, all we have to do is what no lifeform has ever done anywhere. And then it won’t be quite as super,” I said.

“No, it’s more than that. It has to integrate with its existing systems. And at this point, because its database is so comprehensive, if it ever encounters anything new, it might actually—not shut down—but require time to process.”

“Nice. Thank you, Delovoa. Now we have to go wander around a building looking for a child,” Fate said.

“Oh! Before I forget, I was monitoring the bathrooms on the 483rd Hansen Irregular Mob. Sal is on the nineteenth floor. As of…twenty-six minutes ago,” he said.

“You tell us that now? That’s the important bit,” Fate said.

“You’re welcome,” he replied.



MTB was fitting on his body armor and even borrowed some of Fate’s ceramic arm plates to reinforce his chest.

“They didn’t protect me, I don’t see how they would protect you,” Fate noted.

“It’s about layers. Trying to slow the bullets,” he said.

Fate had the pistol that Delovoa brought and several boxes of shells. She also had some blankets and food for Sal.

I went to retrieve my gun from the cabinet.

“Hey, has anyone seen my shotgun shells?” I asked.

Everyone was suspiciously silent.

“What’s going on?”

“Hank, um, we think maybe you should let us shoot—if it comes to that,” MTB said delicately.

“Fate has never fired a gun before. I’ve shot them tens of thousands of times,” I said.

“And how many times did you connect with what you were aiming at?” she asked.

“Most times! Sure, I’m not some trick shooter. I miss a lot. But if I hit something, I’m usually hitting what I was trying to hit.”

“See, that’s the thing. Sal is there,” MTB began.

“And we’re there,” Fate added.

“Right. And ‘usually’ and ‘mostly’ are bad words when they’re applied to shooting in narrow hallways.”

“So I’m supposed to go attack the meanest gang in the city with no gun?”

“You can bring your gun,” she replied.

“Just no ammo. So I’m going to frighten them all by waving it around dramatically,” I asked, windmilling my arms as illustration.

I lost hold of my shotgun and it flew out and smacked MTB on the face.

“Agh!” he cried, doubling over.

“That’s…those handles are slippery. They used to be sapphires. Sorry.”

Fate rushed over to check.

“Move your hand. Yeah, you’re bleeding. Let’s clean you up in the bathroom. Can you see?”

“Give me a second. I almost got my head taken off.”

They went fussing in the bathroom and I carefully picked up my weapon. It was quite heavy for what was essentially a sawed-off shotgun. It weighed about twenty pounds because of the rotating drum and hearty design. Which meant I was one of the few people who could actually use it—when they allowed me.

I suppose I didn’t really need ammo. We wouldn’t have enough shells to blast through the whole building. We’d have to either talk or fight hand-to-hand.

When they came back, MTB had a big bandage wrapped around his forehead.

“This isn’t how you want to start a raid,” he accused.

“Sorry, it slipped. You guys ready?”

“Depends. We might not be coming back. So do you want to break any more of my house while you’re here? Last chance,” Fate offered.

We got Zo, the Keilvin Kamigan, to pick us up in his reinforced taxi. That was about the only vehicle that could reliably get me around other than busses and trains. And those were not exactly ideal means of transport for staging an attack—or retreating from one.



MTB had filched some protective gear from one of his old police storehouses and now he was boxy and slow. I should say, more boxy and slower. Because he was always boxy and slow.

We warily approached the building in question. It was, obviously, in a terrible neighborhood. Zo dropped us off two streets away because he didn’t want to risk his car. The structure was thirty stories and took up an entire block.

There were no cars around and the area was filthy, with piles of trash everywhere.

The front of the building had a huge hole in it. There must have once been some wide, mechanized doors there. It appeared as if someone had driven a car, or small truck, through them, and now there was just a gaping, dark orifice that looked like a jagged mouth.

A large, man-like thing stood around in front, watching us approach.

“That’s what they were wearing,” Fate confirmed, on seeing the doorman’s colors.

“Okay, here we go,” I said.

We had been mostly walking side-by-side, but now MTB stopped and put his hand on Fate to slow her down.

“What are we doing?” she asked, confused.

“Hank’s on point,” he said.

“Hey, guy,” I called out, trying to be cheerful.

“Think you scabs took a wrong turn,” he replied.

The thing that spoke was approximately eight feet tall. He had just one arm, one leg, one eye. Not that he had lost the others, that’s just how he was designed. His limbs were beefy and thick. I got the impression he either hopped around slowly, or would bend over and use his arm to simulate two legs.

“We’re just checking on the gas lines. You guys must have done something and sprung a leak. We need to plug it up or this building could catch fire or explode,” I said.

It was a pretty ridiculous ploy on my part. MTB looked like he was geared up to invade a planet of sentient thorn bushes, Fate was obviously an illegal robot, and I resembled a gas repairman almost as much as I resembled a ballerina.

“No scabs come in here and you better walk off before you can’t walk,” he answered.

“You know, I’m about to tell you to eat suck, suckface,” I said, and I took out my empty shotgun and held it menacingly.

“What’s a suckface?” he asked, sounding legitimately curious.

“I don’t know. But you’re about to eat one,” I said.

“Hold on. You said I’m a suckface. And now you’re telling me I’m going to eat one. So you’re telling me to eat suckface, suckface. Which means eat myself?”

I paused for a moment. Then I swung my gun at his face like a club and felled him with one blow. I wasn’t sure if he was dead, but he was no longer moving or questioning my linguistic skills.

We walked past the still form and entered the lobby.

“You know, he kind of had a point,” MTB said.

“Did he? Doesn’t look like it to me,” I replied.

“We’re going to the nineteenth floor, according to Delovoa,” Fate said, and she tried to move ahead.

“Whoa. Whoa. Easy, sister. That was just one person outside. Stay back here with me,” MTB said.

“So we’re supposed to just follow Hank who’s moving slower than an island?” she asked, clearly believing this to be a foolish plan.

“Yes,” he replied.

There was no one else in sight. The lobby was so full of refuse and waste that the entire first floor was empty. There was standing water and mold everywhere. When it rained, it probably flooded straight in—and brought with it everything else.

“It smells like they must throw their feces out the windows and it flows back in here,” MTB said, coughing.

“Yeah, let’s get upstairs quick,” I said.

I made my way to the first double-wide stairwell.

“Is this ‘quick’? Are we going quickly?” Fate asked.

“This is a hostile situation. We can’t go sprinting upstairs,” MTB replied.

“I can’t sprint. Or run. Or walk very fast,” I added.

“This is a time-critical situation. Sal is depending on us,” she said.

“Dead people can’t rescue Sal. Trust us,” he answered.

We went halfway up the stairs and I stopped.

“What are we doing?” Fate asked.

“Taking a break,” I said, breathing hard.

“Thad Elon. It will take us a year to reach Sal,” she said.

We started down the main hallway of the second floor. The stairwells were, unfortunately, spaced out on every floor. A really terrible design, but they likely figured no one would use them very often.

We couldn’t take the numerous elevators—assuming they were still mechanically functional—because all the power was off in the building. Everything was off.

Once we were on the second floor, with no windows directly adjacent, it was quite dark. There was only the light coming in from the very ends of the hallways. That’s where there used to be windows, long since destroyed.

The building was actually fairly old. And that had a number of side effects. It had been constructed as some monstrous, unadorned housing for basic Colmarians. So even though the structure was quite large, the rooms and halls were not. Because at that point in Belvaille’s history, they were not making allowances for every conceivable species in the galaxy.

Therefore, I physically took up most of the hallway, width-wise. I could feel the carpet squishing under my feet. It was saturated with…who knows what? Not only that, but the entire floor swayed as I walked.

There was noise in the building. Lots of noise. But none of it seemed to be coming from particularly close by.

MTB had his twin pistols out. He would have brought a riot gun, but this wasn’t a riot. The pistols had more ammunition and he was simply better with them. A shotgun was great for indoors, but they were also long-barreled weapons and cumbersome. He had already limited his freedom of movement with his significant body armor.

Fate had her pistol but didn’t hold it confidently.

“I can’t even see what’s going on,” she complained.

“Yeah, it’s dark,” MTB agreed.

“No. I can’t see past him. Where is the next set of stairs?” she asked.

A door opened and two people stepped into the hallway in front of me. They took one look and drew weapons. I wasn’t sure what type. I didn’t really care.

I swung my arm and plastered both of them into the side of the wall. My arm actually passed through the wall and left the two gang members embedded.

“Man,” I said. “These walls are thin.”

“Sure are, buddy,” MTB agreed.

The commotion caused several more people to rush out.

The first target I kind of hit on the upper body with my fist. I think I broke his neck and shoulders and spine.

The next one shot me twice with a handgun.

“Ouch.”

I grabbed the small man by the torso and squeezed, breaking lots of important bodily things.

The last attacker, after seeing all this, tried to run, but I had pretty long arms. So I grabbed him by the head and tried to yank him back, but his skull popped right off.

“Whoops,” I said.

I kept walking, going past an open doorway.

“Hank,” MTB said. “Someone’s stabbing you.”

“Where?”

“Left side. Your left.”

I turned, raised both my arms, and brought them down on the poor guy.

Fate screamed.

“What? What’s happening?” I asked, turning around to see what was going on. I assumed she was being attacked.

“Yes, what?” MTB asked, irritated.

“Nothing. I-I thought I saw a rat,” she said, staring at what was left of the man that tried to stab me.

“Oh. Yeah. There’s probably a bunch in here. You looking for more pets?” I asked. I still felt bad about killing her animals. I tried to search the ground for any mice. As I bent over to peer at the floor in the low light, I took out part of the wall.

“Let’s keep moving forward,” MTB said urgently. “We can find her some rodents later.”

“Good idea,” I replied.

We got to the second stairwell and there were two people camping in it, waiting for us.

But a stairwell was a confined space and they had no way of evading me. I could just swing an arm anywhere and pulverize them. But they did manage to shoot me three or six times.

“Ugh. So loud,” I said, my ears ringing from the gunshots.

“Watch your step,” MTB cautioned Fate, as they stepped over the splattered remains of the gang members.

We got to the third floor and there were lots of people. Lots of people with guns.

I took out my shotgun. I’m not sure why. I guess I was hoping to scare them, but they all started shooting. And then I dropped my gun.

“Damn. I swear, this thing is so slippery. I’m really not that clumsy,” I said.

I went to retrieve it and MTB and Fate had to fall back into the stairwell because I was no longer blocking the entire hallway when I was crouched down. So the people shooting could also shoot at them.

“Hank, watch it,” MTB said, as he retreated.

“Oh. Guess we’ll just have to do this,” I said, stowing my shotgun.

I stomped up the hallway and didn’t really bother swinging. They were all out in the corridor and I volumetrically filled the space. So I simply moved forward and through them.

It was messy. It was loud. I got blasted in the eyes by a submachinegun. And that sucked.

But I cleared them out and kept going.

“Oh, man!” I exclaimed, staring into an open room.

“What? Is it Sal? Do you see her?” Fate asked, trying to hurry past the broken bodies littering the hallway.

“No. Look at all that food,” I said.

There was a huge spread laid out inside. I went in and started eating.

“MTB, you want some?” I asked, while chewing.

“Got my hands full,” he said, holding up his pistols as proof. “But thanks, buddy.”

“Yeah. Don’t want to get grease on your fingers. Then you’ll be throwing around your guns like me,” I chuckled.

“We’re just going to stop and eat?” Fate asked.

“Let him work,” MTB replied sternly.

“I haven’t eaten anything in ages.”

“You ate an hour ago,” she said.

“But it wasn’t any good,” I replied.

They really did have surprisingly tasty food for a gutter gang.

“Hank,” Fate cautioned. “Those…those are birds. They’re full of bones.”

“I know. Not sure why everyone is so uptight about bones. They got a lot of nutrients. And you waste a ton of meat trying to pick around them,” I said.

“That’s very true,” MTB replied.

“You know, I’m going to take this.” I then lifted the entire table of food.

“You can’t…that-that won’t fit out the door,” Fate said.

“Back up.”

“He said back up,” MTB added forcefully.

I walked through the wall and cleared enough space for the table to pass through the doorway.

“These walls are so flimsy. You think it’s water damage?” I asked.

“Could be,” MTB replied.

I walked through the next five floors carrying a table laden with food. I could really only use my legs to fight, but that was fine. Because the Hansen Mob seemed more than happy to throw themselves underneath my feet.

I had to kick people a few dozen times. But I can kick pretty hard. You figure each of my legs weighs like 750 pounds and can easily carry around and support over 3,000 pounds. So little 200-pound people pretty much get pulverized if I kick them.

“That was actually pretty decent food,” I said, putting the table to the side. “Though they weren’t really fond of fruits and vegetables.”

“No, they weren’t,” MTB agreed.

“Did you eat that whole table?” Fate asked.

“Not the table. Just the food on it. And some of it spilled when I was fighting. And I didn’t mess with that blue porridge stuff,” I said.

Fate looked around for it on the ground.

“I mean, I ate it. But I didn’t like it at all. It was gross,” I clarified.

We came to the next flight of stairs and I paused halfway on the landing.

“You hear that?” I asked.

“They’re waiting for us,” MTB said, listening. “We stick our heads up there, they’re gonna take ’em off.”

“Back up,” I said.

“The man said move,” MTB repeated to Fate.

This far up on the landing, I could reach quite high. I dragged my hand along the ceiling a few times, showering wood and plaster and debris everywhere.

Then a big chunk of the floor collapsed and a half dozen gang members fell through.

“Look, it’s raining assholes,” I said.

“Do we shoot them?” Fate asked, her gun ready.

“Just let him work,” MTB said.

I kicked and swung and stomped at them. It wasn’t difficult because they had just fallen through the floor and were easy targets.

“Watch out. This one’s feisty,” I said, punting someone clear through the outer wall and out onto the street many stories below.

I waited and listened but the rest seemed to be retreating.

“Let’s go,” I said.

“Hank, you got something on your foot,” MTB said.

I looked and it was a gang member who was partially smushed and partially clinging to me. I shook my leg a few times but couldn’t get him off.

“Hold on, I’ll get him,” MTB said, and he peeled the gang member off me.

This continued in kind up to the seventeenth floor. I had to stop and take frequent breaks. Not only were the stairs tiring, but getting shot was tiring.

At the last intermission, Fate, who had been silent for some while, spoke up.

“Hank, I kind of wondered why everyone put up with you. Like why would Garm even bother? Was it simply because you’re a loveable moron? But now I get it. You’re absolutely amazing!”

“You…are you taking the piss?” I asked, thinking she was being facetious.

“No! You just smashed through fifty-eight violent gang members—while you were eating.”

“Was it that many? Didn’t seem like that many,” I said.

“It was a fair number,” MTB stated, nodding.

“Why were we hiding all this time? Why did you have me out in the woods or sitting next to a nuclear bomb? Were you trying to be humble or something?” she asked.

“What do you mean?”

“I mean, why were we afraid when we had you? How are there even other gangs when there’s you?” she asked.

“Well…I’m just one guy. And I’m not very fast. Or motivated. And I know these guys seem scary—and to regular people they are—but they’re not a real gang. Not real professionals,” I said.

“No, they aren’t,” MTB agreed.

“And is that all you do? Are you just here to agree with Hank while he does all the fighting?” she asked MTB.

“Yup. I guess I could have taken a few shots now and then, but do you think that would have made any difference? Does he seem injured to you?” MTB replied.

“I’m kind of injured,” I said, examining my body for wounds. “Does this look like a cut?”

“That’s barbeque sauce, buddy. Anyway, you wanted to know why everyone works with Hank and what he’s good at and now you’re seeing it,” he replied.

“It’s not all I’m good at. And this was never about crushing some half-assed street thugs. It was about protecting Sal. And I can’t do that on my own. So that’s why we were hiding.”

“Speaking of: let’s keep going,” MTB said.

We were approaching the stairwell that led to the eighteenth floor when there was an enormous explosion.

In a flash, the stairs were gone. They had blown them out. There was a hole that went down three or more stories and was a good thirty feet in diameter.

“Damn. Everyone okay?” I asked, coughing from the smoke.

Fate and MTB had been knocked down from the blast.

“Yeah. I think,” MTB said. He helped Fate stand and she nodded.

I stared at the empty space that was once a stairwell.

“Now what?” Fate asked.

“There’s the fire escape. A building this size probably has at least four,” MTB said.

“Even if I could fit on a fire escape, I doubt it would support me. They don’t really design them for me. Why would they? I’m fireproof,” I said.

“You’re also fireproof?” Fate asked. “I really feel like we didn’t have to be hiding this whole time.” She seemed upset that she wasted weeks of her life for no reason.

“You can’t get up? Maybe climb on top of something?” MTB asked me.

“I have a tough time walking up stairs. I don’t have an eighteen-foot vertical leap. And there’s not much around here that can hold me. These floors barely can,” I said.

“So what do we do?” Fate asked MTB.

“You and I will take the fire escape. Get Sal. Get back to Hank. Get out,” he said.

“Sounds deceptively easy when you use short sentences,” she replied.

“Just stay close to MTB and follow his instructions. He’s a competent crooked cop,” I said.





CHAPTER 22


B Team



The group found their way to the window that had the best access to the least busted fire escape. When the gang members detonated the explosives and took out the stairwell, damn near everyone who was still on this floor decided to leave. Enormous bombs tended to have that kind of effect.

As suspected, the fire escape was likely too flimsy to support Hank—but it wasn’t certain, because he couldn’t even fit out the window to reach it. Decades of neglect had left the fire escape rusted and unstable. The idea that significant numbers of residents would rely on it in the case of emergency was far-fetched.

“Where you going to be?” MTB asked, as he poked his head out to see if the route was clear.

“Here, I guess,” Hank said, looking around the empty hallway.

“Don’t go wandering off searching for more food,” Fate cautioned.

“You think they have some? That was a pretty good setup they had in that one room. They might have more. Kind of communal dining thing or something,” Hank replied.

“When we recover Sal, we’ll need to get out quick. We can’t be hunting around for you while you’re grocery shopping,” MTB said.

“Okay. But I’m sitting down. I’ve been on my feet all day,” Hank said.

Both of them knew that was a lie. Especially since it was only midmorning.

Hank slid down and rested against the wall by the window. The plaster cracked due to his weight.

“What if some Hansen Mob members come by and you’re just sitting there?” Fate asked.

“You think they’ll be offended?” he asked. “Upset that I’m getting butt stains all over their century-old carpet that’s never been cleaned?”

“Just let him do his thing. He’s been Hank a long time,” MTB said.

“Alright. Let’s go,” she answered.

They got out onto the fire escape, taking turns keeping each other covered while they navigated the metal stairs and ladders.

“They clearly know we’re coming. I think we should hurry,” Fate said, growing frustrated with MTB’s significant precautions.

“Okay. The first rule is: we’re not Hank. Everything you saw over the last fifty minutes you have to forget immediately. You and I can’t get shot. Or chopped. Or stabbed. We need to be careful,” MTB replied.

“But what if Sal is gone?”

“Gone where? They blew up the only stairs. The elevators don’t work. And we are standing on the only semi-safe fire escape on the building. Unless they have a glider or parachute, they’re still up there,” he said.

“Alright.”

“Do you remember where the safety on your gun is?” he asked.

“Yes. Should I click it off now?”

“No. You always have it on. Keep your fingers like this,” he said, showing off his own hands. “Never rest your finger on the trigger. Most guns take anywhere from two to five pounds to pull. That means, if you get bumped, or tripped, or hiccup, you can accidentally fire your gun if your finger is resting on the trigger.”

“I’m a robot. I don’t hiccup.”

“No, but I’ve seen you trip a bunch. And I’m in front of you. Don’t take off the safety until your muzzle is pointed away from anyone or anything you don’t want to shoot—including yourself.”

“Was that why Hank was always shooting us?” she asked.

“No. He’s got a whole range of other issues. But he can walk through seventeen floors of armed assailants without a scratch. But we’re not him—or at least I’m not.”

“Yeah, I’m not either,” she said.

They paused by the window to the nineteenth floor. The glass had long ago been removed and even much of the frame was missing.

MTB was quite concerned about their tactical situation. It was just the two of them against conceivably hundreds of 483rd Hansen Irregular Mob members. Their greatest asset and weapon was sitting two stories below. And Fate was not only a rookie, she had never done anything like this whatsoever.

But he was happy to have her for other reasons.

“You can see in there, right?” he asked. “You can view other spectrums? Because it’s dark as hell to me.”

“Yes. I’ve got a mix of near ultraviolet, near and mid frequency infrared, upper and lower band visible, super high frequency microwave, and a smattering of soft x-ray.”

“So…you can see in there, right?” he asked again, confused.

“Yes. It’s perfectly clear to me.”

“Good. That’s going to have to be our big tactical advantage. You take left side, I’ll be right. If you see anything that isn’t Sal, shoot it.”

“So I’ll click off the safety now?”

“No. Once we’re inside. But do you understand? We can’t wait and find out if they’re friendly or if they have a wife and kids. Do you got it?”

Fate sighed.

“Yes. I understand.”

“Do you remember how to aim?” he asked.

“Yeah. The front doodle gets centered inside the back doodle and they both go over what I want to shoot. With the front doodle being the main doodle.”

That description made MTB want to leave. But he was determined to help Sal and going alone was a far worse option.

“We don’t walk. We don’t jog. We crouch down and slowly move forward. We check each door and room to make sure no one gets behind us. Got it?”

“Yes.”

“Anything looks suspicious we stop and search it. Once we get away from this window, I won’t be able to see very well, so it’s all on you.”

“Okay.”

They entered the floor, Fate on the left, MTB on the right. MTB kept a few feet behind her because she was on point and he was a bit concerned about being doodled. They took off their safeties and began heading deeper into the building.

There were so many other things MTB wanted to tell Fate, but there wasn’t time and he didn’t want to be having a strategy conversation in the middle of a hostile hostage situation.

They checked two empty apartments near the fire escape.

From what Fate could tell, these people lived like animals. Every surface was covered with five layers of graffiti and there wasn’t one stick of furniture that wasn’t at least partially broken. The place was absolutely filthy and disgusting. There was significant structural damage all over. Like residents had frequent celebrations where sledgehammers, chainsaws, and shovels were their version of party favors. If the building wasn’t occupied by violent squatters, it would have been condemned and boarded up due to infinite safety violations.

They were about forty feet in, off of two branching hallways, when Fate fired her pistol twice.

Her gun was loud. Impressive. It was a Delovoa design. The noise and shockwaves from firing in the hallway stunned MTB slightly but also kicked in his adrenaline. He was about to ask her what the hell she was shooting at, when he heard two bodies thump.

They slowly moved forward and MTB saw that Fate had killed two gang members. One was 90% inside an apartment, so he must have stuck his head out and Fate popped him.

“It’s not hitting exactly where I aim,” she told MTB.

“No. It’s not a laser. A bullet is a projectile. It’s travelling at about 1,200 feet per second when it exits the barrel. But it loses velocity as it travels through the air. Gravity is pulling it down. If something is further away, you have to aim a little bit higher,” he said.

“Alright. I get it.”

He was pretty damn impressed with her accuracy despite her not understanding the fundamentals of ballistics.

“And if something is moving, like running, you have to aim slightly ahead of them,” he said.

“Makes sense.”

They kept going and were about to check on a doorway next to MTB.

“There’s someone—” Fate began.

A man rushed out and kneed the crouching MTB in the face. The attacker then barreled into him and they both fell onto the floor.

As MTB was grappling with the man, he realized he hadn’t yet explained that bullets can travel through someone. So if she fired this close, it could also hit MTB. While he had on body armor, he didn’t know if it could stop Delovoa bullets.

“Don’t shoot!” he yelled to her.

Fate began swinging her fist at the man, who had MTB pinned. But Fate was a terrible hand-to-hand fighter and her blows were ineffectual. She simply didn’t have the training, weight, fast-servo arm actuators, or strength for physical combat.

MTB’s significant armor made this a nightmare situation for him. He might have more upper body strength than his attacker, but he had been knocked over and couldn’t get any leverage.

He had a pistol in each hand, but couldn’t bring them to bear because his arms were pinned. If he let go of the guns, he could use his hands more effectively, but then his assailant might grab them before he could break free.

MTB heard yelling and running feet from down the hall. This was going to get way worse real soon.

“483rd Hansen Irregular Mob are pussies!” Fate said, in her most taunting voice.

The man on top of MTB turned. Fate crouched, had her pistol flush to her side, so that she was holding it almost at her waist, yet angled up.

Blam!

She hit the attacker under his jaw, practically erasing his head due to Delovoa’s design. The bullet penetrated and went harmlessly through the wall next to them.

Fate and MTB were far enough inside the building that they were no longer backlit from the window. The mob was just as blind as MTB was so they needed to close the distance before they began firing.

MTB pushed off the dead attacker and used the body as cover.

He mentally subdivided the hall into eight squares. There was no point shooting in the upper two because there would likely be nothing but air or small craniums there. There was no point shooting in the lower two because those would be legs with lots of space in between. The middle four would contain the most volume of hittable targets because that’s where their torsos would be—at least for most species.

MTB fired ten shots down the hallway, spacing them in the middle four mental squares.

There were four people rushing toward them and two were hit. They weren’t fatal hits, one to the shoulder, one to the thigh. But getting shot was not a trivial injury. The body recoiled and flashed all sorts of signals that extreme badness just happened.

The two men stumbled and screamed and that brought the whole group to a halt as they bumped into each other.

Fate picked up where MTB stopped. She could see the attackers perfectly. Two were armed with guns, one with a metal pipe, one with a kind of curved hatchet.

She did what MTB instructed and aimed slightly higher. She fired four times, dropping two. But she missed completely twice. She fired twice again, dropping a third, but the last ducked into a nearby room.

“One got away. Left room. Seventy-five feet,” she said.

MTB blinked rapidly, trying to assess the situation.

“You okay?” he asked.

“Yes. You?”

“Yeah.”

“It’s still not hitting where I aim. It can be left or right or down or a combination,” she said.

“It’s a pistol. The barrel isn’t that long. The bullets aren’t that fast.”

“So what do I do to correct it?”

“Nothing. That’s as good as it gets. Seventy-five feet is damn far for a pistol,” he said, then raised his voice enough to carry. “Let’s reload before he comes back!”

MTB shook his head “no” at her vigorously.

Blam!

Fate fired and MTB heard a body fall.

“So just aim for the body?” she asked.

“Uh. Yeah. That’s it. You’re doing…like, really good.”

“Were you trying to get him to run out at us?” she asked.

“Yeah.”

“It worked.”

“Because you can see and he can’t.”

“Now should we reload?”

“I’ll do it for you,” he said, knowing he could reload the guns far faster than she could.

At this time, MTB got a message on his tele. Normally he wouldn’t look, but it was from Delovoa.

“Delovoa just wrote that they’ve moved Sal up to the thirtieth floor. He saw him in the bathroom up there. At least three different people around him. Apartment number 3023. And he sent a blueprint of the building,” MTB said.

“What’s with Delovoa and bathrooms?” Fate asked.

“I don’t know. I think he has cameras in them.”

“Why?”

“I don’t know. Some…gross reason.”

“Do we go back to the fire escape and hike up?” she asked, clearly not relishing clanging back up the metal stairs on the side of a building.

“Yeah. But this is actually good news. We would have blundered through ten more floors, running into every single person here. With this, we have a chance.”

“You saying we didn’t have a chance before?”

“Not much of one. Not with just two people and no Hank,” he said.

“It is a big difference without him,” she admitted.

“And we been real lucky. If they had power in this building, with decent lighting, they could see us. Shoot us.”

They started to carefully head back to the fire escape. While they weren’t particularly concerned about facing any attackers in front of them, a space they had already cleared out, the worry was they would come from behind.

“So how can Delovoa see them in the bathroom with no lights?” Fate asked after a lull.

“Probably most bathrooms have lights. At least flashlights.”

“Odd placement. I would rate the hallways as being more important.”

“Not really. If you can’t see where you’re putting your waste, that isn’t a bathroom anymore, it’s just a room full of crap.”

“I guess that’s true,” she said, not personally appreciating the intricacies of relieving one’s self.

They reached the fire escape and made sure it was clear. They then began to head up to the top floor where Sal was last seen.

“Compared to those dark halls, this feels really exposed,” Fate said.

“Yes and no. You’re still learning guns. People can see us. But there’s no way any bullets are shooting through entire stories of metal stairs.”

To Fate, the fire escape seemed precarious. It wasn’t solid metal. All the stairs were significantly perforated. With Fate’s visual capabilities, she could make the fire escape appear practically invisible. But it still offered protection.

The perforations significantly cut down on weight, allowed non-slip surfaces, and let water, dirt, and dust fall through to the ground. But upon thinking about it, and the inaccuracy of her own shots, she realized no bullet could ever pass through all those holes and slits—most bullets were too large to even fit through one, let alone dozens in a row.

Their progress on the fire escape was not quick. And while it was risky talking, they both felt the need to do it. The silence was nerve-racking.

“How is it you’re so good with a gun? Is that some of the combat programming you got by accident?” MTB asked.

“No. How are you guys…so bad at it?” she asked.

MTB was quiet, because he didn’t have an answer.

Fate was a machine. It took significant programming to make her not binary. To not have precise movements in everything she did.

In general, biological life had to work really hard to keep perfectly still. Even in hibernation there was some movement. But a machine had to actively work and go against its nature in order to move.

Shooting was largely about centering your target and being perfectly still. And it wasn’t easy. Shooting moving targets was much more difficult. And biological life accomplished it with instincts, practice, and guesswork.

While Fate could not willfully perform any complex mathematics, she had enormous libraries of physics and motion within her. She had to be able to calculate exactly what was going where or she would be fumbling around all the time.

Therefore, she was absolutely amazing at predicting where things were going to be at what point and where the barrel of her gun should be facing given a certain speed of an intercepting projectile.

If you programmed a machine to wave hello, it would do it exactly the same way every single time. It would rotate its wrist the exact number of radians, move a forearm gear an exact number of teeth, etc. It could do this until its mechanical parts began to wear down and were no longer capable of being perfect.

But biological life tended to find that level of precision and repetition to be off-putting. And Fate was designed to interact with living creatures.

So a big chunk of Fate’s artificial intelligence involved simulating the imperfection of a living thing. These were movements that biological life did automatically, intuitively. But a machine had to actively process those adjustments. Fate’s “instincts” were subroutine calls to algorithms and databases.

It’s what gave Fate a sexy walk. And sexy gestures. And sexy mannerisms. She was running complex mathematical calculations to imitate the fluidity of a living creature. Even when she was standing still, Fate would move and sway slightly to produce the illusion of a creature respirating and fidgeting.

But it took significant resources to pretend to be alive. Lots of integral calculus on top of rigorous sensor scanning and minute servo adjustments.

To save energy and promote motion efficiency, for activities that weren’t explicitly required to simulate life, Fate behaved like a machine. And shooting a gun was never anything she had been programmed to do.

So the reason she was so good at it, was because she was locked in place. She had no muscle fatigue or circulatory system or tendon elasticity issues or anything else. She could remain exactly, perfectly stable, even compensating for the wind buffeting her. And she could calculate exactly where a moving target was going to be in three-dimensional space. All of this was part of her most basic navigation and movement systems that would prevent her from running into things and people or injuring them while performing rigorous sexual acts.

She was an unintentional, ideal weapons platform. Of course, all of this was entirely unknown to Fate. She was not familiar with the specifics of her own programming. She could only see it in action and attempt to adjust. In this situation, however, she saw no reason to make herself a worse shooter simply to appear more lifelike to those she was shooting.

The fact that MTB was so confused as to why she was accurate with a gun was a testament to how entirely similar she was to any other biological life. MTB simply didn’t think of her as a machine capable of locking her joints into place.

Fate was much faster on the stairs than MTB, who was growing fatigued clonking up ten stories encased in heavy body armor. Not only that, but there was significant damage to the fire escape that had to be carefully bridged.

After a particularly difficult section, MTB had to stop and catch his breath and sip at some water.

“Does it…bother you killing people?” Fate asked.

“Not these people.”

“But they’re still alive. They might have made some bad decisions. But none of us on Belvaille are exactly saints.”

“They kidnapped Sal. They tore off your leg.”

“I know. It’s just…”

And MTB realized this was likely the first time she had ever hurt anyone, let alone killed. And she had just done a whole bunch of both.

“Murdering people is never great. The only ones who enjoy or even stomach it end up in places called the Belvaille Plantation of Hatred and Desolation. You don’t ever want it to be easy. But it’s not something you can think about now. You think about it later—preferably while drinking lots of alcohol.”

“Robot.”

“Okay. But you said it yourself: most intelligent life is pretty scummy. And these are scummier than average and are poised to murder a little baby if we don’t murder ’em first. As killing goes, this one’s pretty easy. At least morals-wise. I can’t see me drinking more than a couple beers to get over this. Light beers.”

“At least they won’t make you an alcoholic.”

“Oh, that spaceship’s long since flown,” he said.

They finally got up to the top floor of the fire escape and looked inside. It was not ideal.

The thirtieth floor of the building had apparently been designed with lots of skylights. Even though there was a floating city above them that blocked much of the sky. All the skylights had been destroyed years ago, but it meant the top floor was nearly as bright as the outside.

“They’re going to be able to see us. It was smart of them coming up here,” MTB said, staring down the long hallway.

“Where is Sal? Where is unit 3023?”

“It will be the second right, then a left, on the right side. If the blueprints Delovoa sent are still accurate.”

“I doubt they completely remodeled the layout. They can’t even be bothered to scrape off dangerous mold,” she said.

“We’re going to have another issue. It’s possible for bullets to go through walls. Especially these dried-out things.”

“Alright. And what’s that mean?”

“It means we could accidentally hit Sal. Even if we can’t see him. Even if there are entire rooms in between us.”

“So we can’t use our guns? Because my hand-chopping abilities are rather lackluster,” she said, pantomiming a martial arts move.

“Once we get closer, we’re going to have to be really careful. Use low angles, aiming high. Or point straight down the hall. Think of what is behind your target. Trace a line all the way until the bullet is out of this floor or out of the building. I know it’s hard to do that in a fight—” he began.

“Oh,” she interrupted. “No, that’s easy. I thought it’d be more complicated. Okay, I’ll do that.”

They carefully entered the floor via the tall, empty window.

This time they were exactly side-by-side since Fate didn’t have any extra visual abilities, and MTB was no longer worried about getting shot by her.

He even contemplated switching guns with her, giving her his twin pistols, but the street cop in him recoiled at the idea of forcing brand new tactics and weapons in the middle of an operation.

Fate signaled to MTB that she heard something ahead, in the room on the left. He nodded his acknowledgement.

They positioned themselves to rush in firing, but Fate, picking up the conversation, motioned for him to lower his guns. He didn’t, but he held off attacking.

“Hello,” Fate said, looking around the room. She was still crouched defensively, just in case.

Inside, two people were trying to apply first aid to each other.

MTB hurried in, guns out, and secured the room while checking for others.

“Hands up!” MTB yelled.

It was just a young man and woman, gang members of the 483rd Hansen Irregular Mob. They couldn’t raise their arms very high on account of their injuries.

“Holz, stop,” the man exclaimed.

“Where da Hank?” the woman asked nervously.

“Right behind us,” the cop lied.

MTB deduced that the two gang members had been seriously hurt in the explosion that took out the stairs. In addition to their obvious physical injuries, they were both coughing and sputtering.

They were also very frightened of the robotic Fate. She conjured up terrible bedtime stories for many Colmarians, and these two seemed barely past bedtime-story age.

MTB began to rethink the whole situation. He believed the Mob had strategically removed the stairs in order to keep their most powerful asset, Hank, from pursuing. And they had moved up to the top floor in order to be in an environment with more visible light, which would reduce the value of Fate’s exceptional vision.

But on seeing these two, he was starting to believe the bomb might have simply been an accident. They might have tried to fire a rocket or something and inadvertently blew themselves up. As tricky as guns were, high explosives were orders of magnitude more complicated and dangerous. Even the best people had a tendency to become the best corpses given enough uses.

“Where is the child?” Fate asked.

The two didn’t respond. They were scared of Fate. It would be like a ghost suddenly appearing and asking questions.

“A child,” MTB said, taking over. “Pale. Small. Like this big. Where is he?”

“The squid?” the man asked.

“Cover them,” MTB said to Fate.

He took out his tele and showed some videos of Sal.

“Yeah, the little squidder. That’s what you want? Why?” the woman asked, confused.

“Where is she?” Fate repeated.

“Don’t know,” the man replied. He was also perplexed at their interest in the child.

“Are you going to ransom…the squid? Kill it?” MTB pressed.

The couple were clearly baffled. So much so they didn’t even answer. But their injuries and the presence of Fate were also factors.

“We have to tie them up,” MTB said to Fate.

“Look at them,” she replied.

“Give me your teles,” MTB demanded.

“Got none,” the man said. And they were either fantastic liars or telling the truth.

Fate persuaded MTB that they should return to their search and leave these two alone. They were clearly wounded and no danger. MTB agreed and they resumed their quest.

After ten minutes of inching their way down the exposed hall, she spoke.

“They might not have been trying to kidnap Sal in the first place. They might have been liberating a baby from a terrible robot that they just happened to encounter. And now they might be protecting their home from what they perceive to be invaders.”

“Yeah,” MTB replied. He had been thinking the same thing. “But it doesn’t matter. We can’t ask ‘friend or foe’ when they have guns. That’s not how guns work. You only get a half-second to react. And if you’re wrong, you don’t ever get the chance to be right again.”

They came across two more rooms that had six people in a similar state as the first ones they met. These had suffered significant burns and there were two corpses among them who had succumbed to their injuries. While they had weapons, they were in no condition to use them.

MTB disarmed them, took the guns down the hall, and tossed them through an empty skylight onto the roof.

As they moved through the building, it began to seem more and more like a misunderstanding gone horribly wrong. Scores of people were dead and there was probably no one here who knew why.

But, as MTB said, it no longer mattered. No one was going to stop and ask them their intentions. They’d already witnessed as much when the Mob had opened fire on them below.

They came to the room Sal was in and MTB kicked in the door—which was unnecessary, since none of the doors had locks.

There were four people inside and Sal was on the floor, lying on a coat. A woman screamed and went for her gun.

Fate did like MTB instructed and took several steps to change angles, crouched down, and fired. She traced a line the bullet would travel so there was no chance it could hit Sal or ricochet.

With that woman dead and MTB standing there with twin pistols and full body armor, the rest surrendered.

There were no words exchanged. MTB motioned for them all to go into the bathroom and leave Sal. He scooped up all the guns in the room and threw them out the window where they rained thirty stories below.

Fate recovered Sal. The gurgling Ank baby was dirty, longer a pure, nearly translucent white; it was a motley gray. Sal was hungry and cranky, but unharmed.

Fate sighed, nodded to MTB, and they began to head back to the escape of the fire escape.

MTB moved on point. He was no longer crouching. He walked upright with both guns out, safeties off. He stood five feet in front of Fate, who was cradling Sal. He was acting as a shield since Fate now had her hands full and was unarmed.

Several times people poked their heads out or were about to enter the hallway and MTB fired at them, yelling for them to return inside or die. He wasn’t being easy on them, he honestly tried to hit them, but they were usually too far away for a pinpoint shot—especially while he was walking.

The three made it back to the main hallway, with only a long run ahead to the fire escape.

But then some people began firing at them from behind.

They swapped positions with MTB in the rear, walking backwards. Fate had her back to them, covering Sal in her arms while rushing to the window.

It was a lousy situation. At least a few of the Hansen Mob had long rifles with significant range, accuracy, and lethality advantages over MTB’s pistols. And he couldn’t crouch down or take cover because that would leave Fate and her precious cargo exposed.

So all MTB could do was cover his face with his armored forearm, bend over slightly, and fire blindly with his other hand.

The hallway became filled with bullets. Most fired from the Hansen Irregulars.

MTB got hit on the upper left thigh, right forearm, right ankle and, somehow, on the lower left side of his back. He was hit fifteen other times but his armor deflected it. His armor took so much damage, it was starting to come loose and even shatter.

MTB was badly hurt, bleeding from damn near everywhere. But he remained on his feet, trying to intercept every bullet that might otherwise hit Sal.

Fate made it to the window and climbed out onto the fire escape. MTB followed and slumped down to the metal surface.

“Go down,” he said with difficulty. “I’ll cover the window.”

“I can’t. You have to take her,” Fate replied.

MTB then saw that, despite trying to act as a shield, Fate had been shot numerous times. Her right arm and leg were malfunctioning. Thankfully, Sal was unhurt.

“Thad Elon. I’m not sure which one of us is in worse shape,” he said.

“I am. I can’t climb down and carry Sal at the same time. I’m not sure I can climb down at all. I’ll cover the window. I’m a better shot, anyway,” she said.

He knew there wasn’t time to argue. He gave her one of his pistols and spare ammunition.

“Watch the roof in case they climb up. This gun shoots flatter than yours, but has less penetration,” he said. There were a hundred other things he wanted to tell her as he gently took Sal.

“Go on. I’ll figure it out,” she said, cutting him off.

She then faced the window and fired six times, using his pistol, which had slightly longer range.

MTB began the difficult journey. Carrying a baby while in body armor, on a fire escape that had gaps and holes, and after being shot four times, made it an arduous trip.

He could hear the rifles above and Fate’s judicious replies. She had to conserve ammunition but not so much that the attackers were encouraged to approach.

MTB didn’t look up once. He had to trust that Fate would protect them. And he was certain she would do her best. Certain that she would sacrifice her life if she had to—just as he would if their positions had been reversed.

After what felt like hours, MTB finally got down to Hank’s floor and breathlessly stretched out his bloody arms holding Sal.

“Here. Take him and go,” MTB said.





CHAPTER 23


Fire and Water



“Damn, dude,” I said, seeing how wounded MTB was. His armor was in tatters, shot to hell.

Sal rested in my cupped hands, looking grimy.

“There’s a fire,” MTB said, looking behind me at the burning building.

“Yeah. I was going to send you a tele message, but figured you were busy,” I replied. “Where’s Fate?”

“She’s holding them off upstairs. Can you get Sal out of here?” he asked. He was leaning heavily against the wall, while standing on the fire escape.

“Uh. I don’t know how fireproof this kid is,” I said.

“What’s that?”

I turned to see where he was pointing and noticed pieces of gold materializing in the middle of the hall.

“It’s the battlesuit! It’s teleporting in,” I said.

I placed Sal on the floor.

“Run, kid! Save yourself!”

But in the hours since I had last seen the Ank child, he had not learned to speak, walk, or stand. Sal plopped himself into a seated position on the floor, and even in that pose he looked about ready to topple over.

“Crap,” I said.

I carefully picked him up and handed him back to MTB.

“You got to do it. I’ll try and delay the battlesuit. Go before he scans you,” I said.

MTB was scared. Injured. Exhausted. I think me saying I would only “delay” the battlesuit was what really drove it home. He threw a pistol inside at my feet. He then started limping his way down the fire escape.

I grabbed the gun and tucked it in the back of my trousers. It was unlikely the pistol would be of any use against the armor, but it didn’t hurt to have it.

As the Messahn battlesuit came more into view, I approached with an idea.

It grew larger, larger, brighter.

And right before it came fully into view, I leapt into the air with both my arms raised. I must have gotten a full two inches off the ground! I then brought both my fists crashing down.

I wasn’t trying to hit the battlesuit—not exactly. But I did hit him. However, my main objective was connecting with the floor itself.

As I hoped, my impact easily ripped apart the ground beneath us. The carpet, in this dilapidated building, was damn near the hardiest piece of material holding things together. I could feel it when I walked around. And we were currently in the middle of a structure fire, which was further deteriorating conditions.

Both the battlesuit and I fell through the floor. I was pleased to see the armor did not land catlike or gracefully. It landed a lot better than me, but that wasn’t much of a compliment.

I was on the floor facing the window which was adjacent to the fire escape. From there, I saw MTB struggling past. He saw us, mouthed some obscenities, and kept going.

While it seemed like a good idea to try and knock the armor down a story, I forgot that MTB was also going down and the whole purpose was to protect him and Sal.

If the Messahn battlesuit spotted the child, it made no indication. It got to its feet and backed away from me, utilizing some kind of wheels. And I only knew that because it didn’t move by using its legs.

Another thing I wasn’t prepared for was how much larger the fire was down here. It made sense. Fires tended to burn upwards. And if it was a four-scale fire where I had been resting, it was a six down here.

Maybe the fire was interfering with its ability to scan. Or maybe it was jostled and confused falling through the floor. Or maybe it just wanted to kill me before going after Sal.

Whatever the reasons, the Messahn battlesuit raised its four arms and fired its beams at me. It didn’t use them like a person shooting a gun, with arms straight out. Its hands were the point of origination for the beams. And it splayed its arms all over the place in order to hit the widest areas.

One arm was stretched upper right, one lower right, one far left, one low and in front.

The beams sliced across me as the battlesuit swiveled its hands.

It was like dragging razorblades across the skin. Not my skin, since a razor wouldn’t do anything to me. But it did to me what a razorblade might do to a regular person.

Streaks of blood sprang up across my body as if someone was drawing with a thick, red pen—four red pens.

I had been struggling to stand up when it hit me. The cuts were therefore not in particularly delicate areas. Mostly my shoulders, thighs, and back.

I got to my feet and pulled out the pistol MTB gave me. The battlesuit was about twenty feet away, surrounded by burning walls.

MTB’s gun was far too small for my hand and I had trouble even getting my finger inside the trigger guard. I fired once and the battlesuit went invisible.

I saw the flames woosh on one side and got the sense the battlesuit was moving. I swung my left arm, knocking a hole in the wall, but didn’t connect with anything other than that.

As I guessed, the battlesuit was now behind me and I felt the quad beams slicing up my back.

I turned and fired twice. I couldn’t tell where I hit, but it was clear I didn’t shoot the armor.

It vanished again.

“Oh, no, you can go invisible,” I taunted. “I got news for you, Captain Shiny Crotch, the last ten or so people I shot, I didn’t even mean to. So you turning invisible is actually improving my aim.”

To illustrate the point, I fired blindly at empty space.

I heard a ping and saw a spark!

That result was so surprising to me my mouth actually dropped open. Did I really hit it?

My words had only been a standard, midcombat provocation. Fighting was not only physical, it was psychological. I had been trying to annoy the battlesuit, throw it off its game, and instill some doubts. In addition, I was trying to boost my own confidence. Even if I didn’t believe my own jeers, just the act of saying them was reassuring.

But I was pretty sure I blasted an invisible, moving battlesuit. It was perhaps the best shot I had made in my life, and it was completely accidental.

The assassin appeared behind me again and whipped its antiparticle beams across my legs.

It was probing for weaknesses—some place it could shoot me that would inflict serious harm instead of merely giving me a close-close-close shave.

I turned around and saw the armor briefly before it went invisible again. If it was hurt from the fall, the fire, or my random gunshot, the damage was so imperceptibly small that I couldn’t recognize it.

But I figured I knew what was next so I decided to do the only thing that had thus far had any effect.

I brought my arms crashing down. As I suspected, the battlesuit was in midtransition to get in my rear arc. The hallway was not so large that the armor could easily pass by—even though the battlesuit was rather thin and quite speedy on its wheels.

It was close enough to me during my splashdown that we both fell through the burning floor into a truly raging fire.

I was once again on the ground and looking out the window, which was ringed in flames.

I saw MTB moving down the fire escape. Our eyes locked and he seemed to be rather annoyed that we were continuing to meet him on his journey to freedom.

Sal was usually a good baby. By that I mean the times we were in mortal danger, he kept quiet. But now he began crying his distinctive low-frequency moan. It was the worst possible time to be fussy, but it was understandable. MTB was probably bleeding all over the poor kid while they jostled their way alongside a burning building.

I felt sure the assassin would hear Sal and react. So I tried to grab the armor, but as close as it was, I couldn’t reach it before it had risen to its feet and sped away. It had used its four arms like pneumatic pistons and punched itself up and away.

I slowly got up, feeling beams cut across my arms.

It was at this point that I realized I had absolutely no chance of beating this thing.

Our current location had the most ideal fighting conditions I could possibly choose. I had a pistol in a confined space, that was on fire, with no way out. If I couldn’t beat it here, I couldn’t beat it anywhere.

And I couldn’t beat it here.

The armor was simply too fast, too invisible, too protected, and armed with deadly ranged weapons that apparently didn’t require much in the way of ammunition.

I could keep breaking up the floor but not even that seemed to do anything other than briefly knock it down. I was far more disrupted by the falls than the armor was.

The battlesuit went invisible again, but this time it reappeared far down the hallway, still in front of me. It was nearly impossible to see because of the fire and its gold, reflective hue. But whatever my visual issues, the armor had no difficulty shredding me with its beams. I covered my face and neck and fired MTB’s pistol twice, hitting nothing.

It wasn’t going to try and go past me again. It had learned from that mistake.

Thankfully, the assassin didn’t pursue MTB or Sal’s fog horn. Which was understandable. How many people knew what a crying Ank baby sounded like?

It was then that I remembered Delovoa’s instructions.

He said the armor recorded moves. It had 100,000 years of movement and actions stored in its systems so it knew how to respond. It knew what I was going to do before I even completed my motions. Probably before I even started.

Delovoa had said that to fight the Messahn battlesuit, I had to do stuff no one had ever done before. Because then it wouldn’t know how to react. More than that: it would have to record my responses and update its systems.

But how could I do that? Not only was I not that creative, but I wasn’t a damn gymnast. My most adrenaline-fueled leap took me a whole 5 centimeters into the stratosphere. How could I possibly do something that this armor had never seen before given its hundred millennia of battle experience?

I scraped my open hand along the wall and flung burning plaster and cinders in the general direction of the armor.

But clearly that was something it had encountered before because it didn’t even bother dodging. Instead, it took the opportunity to throw its beams at me which arced across my body. At this rate, my clothes were going to be sliced to pieces. Not long after, my body would follow.

The battlesuit was about forty feet away when he zapped me. And the hallway was actively, ferociously ablaze. Which meant there was fire, embers, and smoke in between us. And I noticed that the beams didn’t hurt quite as much. They weren’t quite as bright. I’m not sure if it was because of the range, the fire, or some combination.

However, that didn’t help me a whole lot because I wasn’t a ranged combatant. I had a gun, but even point-blank I doubted it could hurt the armor. And I couldn’t dream of actually shooting it—unless it decided to go invisible again. But, so far, it had refrained from blinking away, likely because it realized it served no purpose. It really didn’t matter if I could see it or not.

With no options, I plodded down the hall to try and get closer.

Along the way, there was what looked like a duct hanging perpendicular to the hallway along the ceiling. The plaster and wood that had once coated it had been incinerated by the fire. I assumed it was some flimsy ventilation thing or empty pipe so I didn’t bother crouching down as I went by—laziness was my most prominent attribute.

But it wasn’t a duct or pipe or cardboard tube. No, it was a sturdy support beam. A beam that helped hold up the entire building. So I hit it, bounced off, stumbled, smacked into the right-side wall, stepped through the wall and partially into an apartment, stumbled back out of the wall into the hallway, tripped on the way, fell down, and as I put my arms out to try and arrest my fall, I shot myself in the face.

As I was lying on my stomach, my head sticking through the opposite wall, I expected more antiparticle beams to come at me. But nothing happened. I got into a seated position and saw the assassin was just standing there.

Was it laughing at my theatrics? No. Or if it was, it was doing it quietly, respectfully—which didn’t really seem like Belvaille Massacre behavior.

And then I realized: I had just done a series of moves that the armor had never seen before! Its computer systems had to record and update my acrobatics. And modifying a 100,000-year-old database was apparently not that easy. Because the armor stood there motionless, processing.

It made sense. I didn’t know much about history or technology. And I knew even less about the history of technology. But Fate was an advanced machine that was created around the same time as this battlesuit. Hell, she even had some of its software by mistake. And for entire days, when Fate was in the woods, she had no idea how to get around. She was falling down every couple steps, completely worthless. She simply couldn’t adapt very quickly to a new environment.

So all I had to do was continue to perform actions that no one had ever done in a hundred thousand years. Too easy…

The battlesuit was done with its updates and seemed to understand that its beams weren’t very effective at this range. It rolled forward.

I got to my feet and also moved up. My idea was to throw a haymaker punch right in its midsection as it was driving to meet me.

I cocked back, took a few steps, and swung. I missed by about ten feet. Ten feet! I threw a punch at someone standing across the street. That’s how absurdly easy I was to dodge.

But physics were an actual thing. And just because I missed didn’t meant I came to a stop. Embarrassment didn’t trump the laws of motion. No. My missed swing meant I overextended, spun around, and fell down.

And of course, the fire-ravaged floor collapsed beneath me.

When I landed, my left arm was underneath my body, my right arm extended above my head. The Messahn battlesuit fell approximately on my legs, after it slid down the pit I created with my fall.

I had zero leverage, but I kind of managed to bop the armor on the shoulder before it sprang up and rolled away.

It had its back to the window with the fire escape as it faced me with its particle beams.

MTB was out there on the ledge. He had been crouching down. I wasn’t sure if he was resting, tying his shoes, or putting a tourniquet on one of his many gunshot wounds. But he saw us, stood up, and walked on. Despite the dangers of speaking, MTB couldn’t help but mutter.

“Are you kidding me?” he said, before he moved out of view.

Sal was still crying, but not as loudly as before. The assassin might assume the noise was some distant storm clouds or a beat-up engine that hadn’t been oiled in a century.

This floor was entirely engulfed in flames.

I wasn’t sure what started the fire. It might have been the blast that took out the stairs. It seemed to have penetrated numerous stories below us. But maybe it had just been an indoor cookout that got out of hand.

Whatever the case, I suddenly had a new concern. The building was on fire. This was a real fire. They weren’t kidding around.

I was gasping for air. I could barely see. And if I had nose hairs—or any hairs—they would have all been incinerated.

It was hot, painfully hot, but I didn’t feel like I was blistering just yet. But as tough, and fire resistant as I was, I couldn’t shrug off a thirty-story building falling on me. And if this fire kept up, a whole lot of up there was coming down here. And I was down here.

Maybe that was how I could beat the Messahn battlesuit: by dropping a flaming apartment building on it.

It seemed like this would be a really cool place to fight a four-armed, super assassin battlesuit.

Very cinematic.

But I couldn’t really do anything. I was standing inside an inferno.

MTB’s gun actually fired a few times without me doing anything. The metal was so hot it ignited the gunpowder of the bullet in the chamber. And because it was a semi-automatic, that cycled the gun, loaded the next cartridge, and that one detonated as well.

I held the gun close to my eyes so I could see it, and parts of the metal were glowing orange. That’s how hot it was in here.

Since the gun was no longer a gun—it was a fireplace poker—I hurled the weapon at the battlesuit. I’m not sure what I was hoping to accomplish.

But I missed by a large distance. The gun went out the window and I could barely hear it clanking around on the metal fire escape.

Followed by a distant MTB scream.

“Sorry,” I mumbled, not quite loud enough for anyone to hear.

The battlesuit did not like its close proximity to the window. That was the end of the hallway, which meant it had less room to maneuver. Thankfully, the assassin did not recognize that the bullet-riddled, fire-pokered man attempting to flee behind us was also carrying Sal.

The Messahn battlesuit zipped past me faster than I could swing and almost faster than I could see. Though given the conflagration around us, my eyes were squinted so tightly that it was hard to see anything whatsoever.

The assassin went farther up the hall where it had more room.

However, I was very reluctant to follow because I had a difficult time breathing, even standing next to an open window. If I went deeper into the building, there was a very real danger of suffocation.

But I took a few steps and then spotted the battlesuit begin to teleport.

No. It wasn’t teleporting. It was falling.

The entire floor beneath us collapsed! The fire had simply destroyed it.

I twirled through the air as gracefully as a cinder block in a wind tunnel.

We hit the next floor, along with all the heavy debris from above, and that floor gave out as well.

I finally came to rest underwater. Which was pretty damn surprising considering I didn’t recall seeing a lake anywhere.

I raised myself up and saw the entire floor was partially submerged. There was about five inches of water down here.

I looked up and, through the holes in the ceiling, all I could see was pure fire. Like I was looking up into hell. Which meant I was below hell—which I suppose was just Belvaille.

The Messahn battlesuit was fifteen feet away, having dropped through a different hole.

Where did all this water come from? I’m sure we didn’t pass it on the way up. I think I would have remembered an undersea apartment floor.

Maybe the fire system had kicked in, but only down here. In any case, it was a relief from the wall-to-wall brimstone above.

“Do you think this is pee or water?” I asked the golden assassin. “Because it doesn’t smell like water.”

The armor got to its feet, but was not as steady. It was standing ankle-deep in water. Its wheels could not function—or if they could, they weren’t very quick.

I splashed toward the armor, but even in this mess, it could easily outpace me. Though it had to turn and run to maintain the distance.

The assassin flung back two arms and etched me with its antiparticle beams while it moved away. However, it wasn’t as accurate while running in water and firing backwards—pfft, amateur. The beams struck me and then veered off to hit the walls and ceiling.

It must have recognized there was little benefit in shooting behind. So it went invisible. It deactivated the beams when it blinked away.

I wasn’t sure if the systems were mutually exclusive or if it defeated the purpose of invisibility if you started using laser pointers while cloaked.

It was not that I now had the upper hand in this smelly water world, it was more like my situation had improved to being only slightly hopeless.

I couldn’t be sure what floor we were on any longer, but it didn’t really matter. My job was to stall the armor so MTB, Sal, and Fate could get away. But I wasn’t really performing my duties very well. I heard MTB panging down the stairs behind me. He had just reached our floor.

“Come on,” he said, angered at seeing us yet again. But he soldiered onward.

With a healthy distance between us, the Messahn battlesuit reappeared and fired.

The four arms, fanned out, had their beams converge. And it became obvious it was going for my eyes.

Since it had been invisible just a moment before, I had not been prepared. My left eye was cut before I could blink. I shielded myself and felt the beams digging into my forearm.

This was bad.

My eye was bleeding. Such an injury prompted an immediate, primal panic. The armor knew it wasn’t going to be able to dice me up like a regular target, so it was going to cripple me instead. Blind me.

And that was something it could do.

I attempted to utilize my other senses as I kept my face covered. I couldn’t hear much of anything other than rushing water, roaring fire, and occasional profanity from MTB on the stairs outside. All I could smell was soot and sewage. I reached down to try and feel the liquid around my feet. Maybe I would be able to register ripples or currents. The water felt wet.

That was pretty much all my senses. I didn’t think I could taste the golden assassin. Maybe I could, but so far it had been very reluctant to permit me to lick it.

I didn’t even have a gun any longer because I had used it to brand MTB.

The only positive out of all this mess was that the Messahn battlesuit was too preoccupied to recognize MTB and Sal. But all it had to do was sear my eyeballs and then it would have all the time it needed.

I really had no way of dealing with this armor. Throwing my retinas at it seemed like a short-term distraction at best with long-term consequences for me.

Keeping one hand on my face to protect my eyes, I sat down in the water.

I leaned back, lying flat, and put my legs in the air.

I then began to pump my legs and flap my arms. Like I was trying to fly away while riding an imaginary unicycle on my back in a stream of filthy water. And I added some lyrics.

“Sunshine snowman laughing with his butt. Dancing, twirling, like a big fat slut.”

After that melodious triumph, I spastically kicked my legs in any direction and spun my arms wildly.

I sat up with one hand shielding my face, and saw, between the cracks of my fingers, the Messahn battlesuit was motionless. I had confounded its computer systems with my tactical brilliance.

I got to my feet as quickly as I could and rushed at it.

But my reprieve was short-lived. Before I could reach the armor, it retreated and even managed to throw two beams perilously close to my eyes.

However, I now had a plan of attack.

The battlesuit understood what I was doing so it kept as far away as possible. This made it really difficult for me because nearly any unique movements I could envision involved me falling down. Because in combat situations, most people tried to avoid doing that. But also, I simply didn’t move quickly or with agility. So most everything I could attempt would be a slow-motion motion that the armor would not need to process.

But me and gravity had a very special relationship. And when I tripped or stumbled or floundered, it appeared very different than the way anything smaller than a dump truck might enact that same behavior.

Unfortunately, after I did those things, I had to get up and recover—with the laws of physics complaining loudly along the way. All of this made it hard to take advantage of the battlesuit being unresponsive, since I would be unresponsive as well.

I followed the assassin around a corner and the water was surprisingly deeper here. It must be originating from somewhere close by.

The battlesuit was a lot nearer on account of the thick water and because it had been waiting to take a shot as I came into view. My nose, cheek, and left, lower blinky part of my eye got cut. I never thought I’d be so appreciative of my beady eyes.

Inspiration took hold and I decided to attempt a forward roll. Or summersault. I wasn’t sure the difference because I had no reason to know them.

I leaned over.

And that was as far as I got before I realized I didn’t know what to do next. My head hit the ground, past the stinky water, and actually penetrated the floor. I couldn’t be sure what the rest of my body was doing—but it was probably quite embarrassed.

I was kind of stuck for a moment because I was wedged inside of carpentry and underwater. But after thrashing about for a short while, I extracted myself and got to my feet.

The Messahn battlesuit was again stupefied by my elegance. And this time, it was close enough that I could do some harm.

That golden, four-armed battlesuit was a mystery to me. I didn’t know where its vitals were located. I didn’t know its weak spots. I didn’t know much of anything.

But I did know it had four arms, and those four arms had four hands that shot four particle beams that were gunning for my two eyeballs.

I took hold of the left shoulder of the armor to root it in place and I swung my right arm down like a sledgehammer.

The top right arm of the Messahn battlesuit was completely ripped off. The bottom right arm was significantly damaged.

From what I could see, there was nothing biological inside those arms. They appeared completely mechanical.

Not that I cared. If the arms had been filled with mewling kittens, I would have still tried to hack them off. Because those damn cats were shooting streams of antiparticles at my peepers.

After I attacked, the assassin snapped back to reality. It turned invisible and I felt twenty or so kicks and punches to my face, neck, and upper body.

My nose broke. My lips were split against my teeth. My eyes were hurt even worse than when I was hit by a beam. My lower jaw felt like it had been used in a futile effort to pry money out of Garm’s clenched fist.

And suddenly I learned that the battlesuit was also a capable hand-to-hand fighter—because no challenge in my life could be anything less than impossible.

The worst injury the armor inflicted was to my neck, specifically my throat. After repeated blows to my windpipe, I began choking, unable to breathe.

I’m not sure I had ever been choked before. Then again, I had never been kicked in the neck by a two-and-a-half-armed battlesuit before. And the situation was largely due to the fact that I had never dunked my head in sewage before and then, after coming up for air, charged neck-first at my capable adversary.

Today was certainly a day of firsts. I was hoping they wouldn’t also prove to be lasts. Though I couldn’t say I was looking forward to trying more head plants.

As I was hunched over, gasping for air, the Messahn battlesuit took the time to carve a scenic landscape on the top of my skull. Or at least that’s what it felt like.

But compared with being out of breath, it wasn’t all that bad. It’s not as if a lot of people were staring at my scalp, anyway. I could buy a hat.

I was in that position, coughing and grasping at my throat, for about a minute. The battlesuit zapped me a number of times, but it saw the beams did little more than make me bleed and keep my adrenaline going—which actually helped me to clear my airflow. At this angle, the armor simply couldn’t get a good shot at my delicates.

Instead, the assassin moved farther down the waterlogged hallway and attempted to patch up its busted arm.

When I was able to stand and move and think, I knew I needed to perform another unique dance routine. If I could stun the armor again, I might be able to totally disarm it—literally and figuratively.

I held my arms wide and began slowly spinning in circles. Since it seemed to help last time, I added some lyrics.

“Helicopter, butterfly, my pants are wet, apple pie,” I sang.

But everyone was a critic. And, apparently, this maneuver was not an exclusive showing in the last 100,000 years. So the Messhan battlesuit activated its two remaining beams and once again tried to blind me.

Spinning in circles is a fun time for kids, but it’s a dizzy time for adults. Adding particle beams and sewage, after nearly asphyxiating, made me a rather wobbly helicopter. And as I was coming in for a landing, one of my arms hit, and punctured, the wall to my left.

A thick torrent of water shot out of the hole I just made.

It was such an unusual event that I kind of did a Messahn battlesuit and stood there attempting to process what I was seeing. It was a foot-wide cylinder of blasting water. Which was an uncommon feature on apartment walls.

But I only had a moment of indecision. Not because I recovered, but because after a moment, the entire wall erupted in a tidal wave of whatever disgusting sewer-rain-runoff mess we had been walking through.

The hallway, which had been less than a foot of water, was now three feet of high-velocity crud and rising fast.

The Messahn battlesuit went down, the force of the water easily overpowering it.

I walked through and past the jet to try and take advantage of the golden assassin who was now a golden submarine.

The water, for all its fury and strength, couldn’t begin to budge me. I was a breakwall who broke the wall. But that armor must have been constructed of bulletproof, inflatable rubber, because it was tumbling away faster than a surfboard in a tsunami.

I couldn’t catch it. And I was having great difficulty moving at all as the water rapidly filled the hall.

The floors around here could barely hold me to begin with. Something I had already demonstrated numerous times above. And while this floor hadn’t suffered any fire damage, there was now an extra 30,000 pounds or so of water pouring in.

So, of course, the building ruptured. I couldn’t see the ground or much of the walls because of the water, so I couldn’t tell exactly what was going on.

We were launched downward as if we were spat out of the mouth of a Therezian who had been gargling with putrid mouthwash. There was so much water I expected the Navy to come any second and commandeer the building as a military base.

The entire side of the building was blasted open. It erupted in a combination of bricks, plaster, fetid water, assassins, and Hanks.

In the air, as I sailed away from the apartment complex, I swore I saw MTB at the edge of the fire escape watching us. He looked angry.

I had fallen off a lot of buildings in my life. So many. Normally, I was fine. I would often jump—well, slowly crawl—out of windows because it was faster than taking the stairs.

But maybe I was gaining weight, or I didn’t exactly stick the landing, or I hit a patch of anti-Hank pavement. Whatever the case, I broke both my legs.

There’s a lot of bones in my legs so when I say “broke both,” I have to estimate somewhere between two and eighteen bones were fractured.

It was absolute agony.

Gross water continued to shower down on the entire street.

The Messahn battlesuit was lying prostrate, not far away from me.

The armor was immobile. Our water fall was almost assuredly a new set of motions it had to properly collate. So as its computer systems chugged away, it remained paralyzed.

I dragged myself toward the armor. I didn’t know how long I had, but I knew that if it returned to duty while I had two busted legs, I’d be left with colorful language as my only means of defense.

I propped myself up on top of the armor and hammered frantically at its arms. Bang! Bang! Bang!

The top left arm came off. The bottom left detached. But that stubborn bottom right still wouldn’t give up.

I switched my efforts and bent and twisted one of its legs. Smashed the foot of the other one. And I was in the process of lifting and slamming its head over and over when it started to teleport.

It became encased in a shimmering light and was growing transparent at the edges. I was about to redouble my attacks to prevent it from escaping, but instead, I stopped entirely.

I didn’t know how teleportation worked. I’d seen instances of it long, long ago, but that didn’t mean I understood the science behind it. If I kept messing with it, would I halt the transportation? Would I be teleported as well? Or would just my bloody fists be teleported?

Since I didn’t know, and I liked my fists, I let it go and actually rolled clear of the battlesuit to be safe.

The golden assassin left behind two arms, part of a foot, part of a forearm, and innumerable bits and bobs from other regions.

I lay on the ground and rested my eyes. Eyes which were not only particle-beamed, rubbed with sewage, burned by flames and soot, and kicked and punched by armored pistons, but had also witnessed a bit too much for one day.

MTB approached moments later—though by his clock he said it was twenty-two minutes. His body armor was a mess. He was a mess. It was only his constant grumbling that gave any indication he hadn’t actually died a week ago.

But Sal…was safe.

Fate approached some time later, limping, scraping, and sputtering.

It was a toss-up which of us least resembled a functioning individual. If you combined all our best parts, you’d still only have maybe a tenth of a healthy creature. Though such a being would know a lot about sex, criminals, and Clumpy.

As we waited for Zo to come fetch us in his armored taxi, MTB gently placed Sal on my chest. It wasn’t a loving gesture or anything. He had to staunch his bleeding and the ground in all directions had centimeters of waste water.

“You know guys, I might be in a motorized wheelchair for the rest of my life,” I began.

“They don’t make motors that big,” MTB said absently.

“But it was worth it,” I finished.

Sal gurgled a response.

“Hah. He agrees with me,” I said.

“No, she doesn’t. Wait,” Fate replied knowingly.

Sal coughed a little spit-up. It wasn’t directly on my face. But it was close.

“Huh. What’s it look like they were feeding him?” MTB asked, curious.

“Still worth it.”





CHAPTER 24


The End, Seriously



It was over.

It wasn’t beating the Messahn battlesuit, it wasn’t any one thing. It was the culmination of a whole bunch of events kicking off almost simultaneously.

But it was finally done.

When the Ank had put economic pressure on the Colmarian Confederation, they inadvertently put economic pressure on the entire galaxy. It was explained to me that complex financial controls were a cross between a nuclear bomb, black magic, and diarrhea. You couldn’t predict the scope of change, you couldn’t predict the outcome, but you knew it was going to be messy and gross.

So as all the delegates, diplomats, advisors, and security arrived for the scheduled summit, each empire brought a few dozen extra ships along. Ships with guns and soldiers and more guns.

When the fleet arrived, it was the biggest collection of warships the galaxy had ever seen. And it almost turned into the biggest space battle the galaxy had ever seen.

Because all these empires hated each other and they couldn’t agree where anyone should park. There was only so much room to orbit Belvaille.

But it settled down and they pointed their bazillion guns at our little city and told us to knock it off. We were ordered to give back the Ank to the Ank. And the various assassins and bullies and opportunists weren’t so bold as to take on the combined armed forces of the entire galaxy.

Garm performed her job well.

She testified, cajoled, and pleaded with the Navy and anyone or anything that would listen. She cast enough doubt on the activities of Centurion Advocate Uso-Reese that a Sub-Branch Divisional Operations Chief of the Fourth Hemispherical Protectorate took notice. Said personage put forth a very simple missive: stop all activities immediately until further notice.

Every Colmarian Navy operative within a half lightyear of Belvaille practically held their breaths. It was the largest transference of breathable air in history.

It would be another three months before the order came down to arrest Uso-Reese, but by that time, it was pointless.

Two hours after the Divisional Chief issued her orders, Uso-Reese put the barrel of a gun in his mouth and said farewell. Because he knew it was only a matter of time—if he had known just how long a matter it was, he might have hung around and got in a few laughs.

He left a suicide note that cursed Vice Admiral Tapper, Garm, and, oddly, celebrated a small glocken team in some forgotten corner of the Colmarian empire that must have held some childhood fantasy for him.

Of course, it was Garm who found the letter, being ever careful of such things. She edited the note, removing all references to herself.

Good old Rendrae also helped.

He wrote a series of articles that were published in the Union Guardian Union Daily Consolidated Information Press: Tomorrow’s Knowledge Today or Sooner.

It was a tearjerker. Really. I read it. I cried. It was so traumatizing, I didn’t even like to think about it, because I’d start crying again. He detailed the Ank Obliteration. The plight of baby Sal. And the involvement of the heroic heroes trying to save him or her or it.

The article was an extra kick in the nards to every politician who wanted to remain a politician. It galvanized support across the Colmarian Confederation—among voters, anyway. And that’s all that mattered.

If there were any other jerks behind Uso-Reese and Admiral Tapper who were trying to kick out the Ank or do anything at all on Belvaille, they damn well kept their traps shut.

But as amazing as the reporting was, Rendrae was upset about it. Not only did he have to publish in a rival news outlet, but they didn’t give him a proper byline. The article was credited to Red Ray, reporter from the Belvaille Blues: Whore Fruitful.

Their misspelling of his name was sort of understandable. But the butchering of his newspaper title seemed more intentional. They also edited the content somewhat, referring to the Ank Obliteration as the Belvaille Massacre.

As much as gangs fought one another and competed, I began to suspect that reporters and news outlets were even worse. It was a good thing they only had pens and screens and microphones instead of guns or we’d be out of journalists.

Sal was picked up by an Ank delegation and that was it. The entire handoff took less than fifteen minutes. We didn’t have much chance to be sentimental or mushy, especially since we were all still grievously injured. His real name wasn’t Sal, of course. And he wasn’t a he—though when we asked for clarification, the response was even more confusing.

And just like that, the Fourth Quadrant was restored.

Actually, I had no idea. Their whole world could be in turmoil for all I knew, with every noble Ank facing off in deadly pie-throwing duels. It’s not as if the Ank royal family stayed in touch with me. All I did was help save a dynasty. But as a commoner with no money, to aristocratic Ank bankers, I was about as important as a used tissue.

No one was sure exactly what happened to the Messahn battlesuit. Delovoa found that its code had a trigger that would initiate a teleport to HOME if it took catastrophic damage. The kind of damage I inflicted. It wasn’t the operator itself who initiated the teleport, it was the armor.

It was an obscure subroutine, just a few lines of code. It was obscure because there was almost no chance of it being used. If it suffered catastrophic damage, the ability to teleport would almost certainly be impaired as well. It was kind of like having a jet pack you could only use while you were experiencing a heart attack.

Where HOME was, no one knew. Delovoa suspected it was where the armor was built. Because they would be the only people who could repair it.

But that facility hadn’t existed for 50,000 years and it had been thousands of lightyears from here. The armor couldn’t possibly teleport there; it was too far. So the golden assassin could be stuck in a kind of limbo as it ran out of power. Or it could have popped back in the middle of outer space.

In any event, the battlesuit systems had been so compromised that it was not much of a threat. Even if it had overridden the location for HOME to be next door to me, I wasn’t particularly worried about a half-arm, no-leg battlesuit leaking oil on me.

The 483rd Hansen Irregular Mob were now really irregular but not much of a mob.

It seemed that I had been wrong and MTB had been wrong. That building we set on fire, rinsed out, and shot full of holes and antiparticle beams had been most of the gang. And we crippled their leadership and destroyed their base.

So many of the remaining members decided to find a new social group to be antisocial with. We never found out why they attacked Fate and grabbed Sal, but we didn’t care.

There were not many Hansen left to ask, even if we did care.

It took a long time for the Dead of Nova Ammonium 6% to leave.

They must have been told a few hundred times that their quarry had vacated. But they didn’t respond. Of course, you couldn’t really tell if they understood you or not. You couldn’t even tell which way they were facing.

But after a few months, it was clear, even to them, that there was no more action on Belvaille. They would have to search elsewhere for someone to put them out of their miseries, because no one here was stupid enough to oblige.

All but one of them left. We assumed that it was a dead Dead. But a few weeks later, some enterprising individuals were preparing to break down the specimen for parts and scrap. It took offense to those actions and ripped the poor bastards to pieces.

Thereafter, everyone was quite cautious when moving around giant piles of metal waste. Junkyards became the new settings for spooky campfire stories.

Word was, some of the residents of the Belvaille Plantation of Hatred and Desolation had made it back to Belvaille. So now I had all my dental floss, toilets, soap, and everything else, checked for nanowire, poison, and bombs.



We were offered a reward by the Ank to cover our expenses. I tried to fill out the claim forms a few times, but they were complex, comprehensive, and gigantic. MTB didn’t bother either. He said even if we got a thousand credits a page, it would never be worth the time to complete the forms. If you sat on a street corner and panhandled, you’d end up making more per hour.

Garm came out more or less okay.

Rendrae’s article helped some. And her own involvement with the various governments helped more.

The galaxy had a short memory. If you punched someone in the face and then gave them a million credits, you’d have a friend for life—or until they ran out of money.

Once Sal was gone and the Ank pressure was removed, people turned their attention to the next galactic calamity, of which there was an infinite supply.

So Garm had been blamed for the Belvaille Massacre and then praised for helping save Sal and restore economic equilibrium. And the Navy appreciated her for pointing out the strategic significance of water parks.

MTB was reinstated to the police force.

After Rendrae’s articles, there was no choice. MTB was a minor celebrity and he had to shake the hands and tentacles of a few hundred politicians—and allow pictures—while he was still in the hospital trying to recover from bullet wounds.

He wasn’t given a promotion or anything, he was back where he had always been. Same office. Same everything. MTB said they hadn’t even emptied the trash cans or vacuumed the carpet. It was almost like they expected him to return—and they didn’t give a damn.

Fate didn’t have much choice except to be repaired by Delovoa.

But she insisted some of us be there to ensure he didn’t add any nuclear bombs—as if we would recognize them.

He didn’t give her armor. Or guns. Or rocket boosters. Just the same configuration she had before, with updated joints and servos. At first, she complained about this and demanded to be returned to stock condition, but it was made clear that those parts no longer existed except in museums.

The upshot was, she used a little less power and was a little more stable if she chose to walk on the grass.

I tried to buy Fate some replacement pets for the ones I squished, but they died in the car ride over. I never had pets before. So maybe I was doing something wrong. But I didn’t believe Fate would appreciate me giving her more dead animals. So I just forgot about it.

Delovoa wanted the Messahn battlesuit’s severed arms and parts as payment for his significant help. And, I must say, we all debated this for a very long time. Finally, we relented and handed them over.

He attached the arms to a captured morlian—which was kind of a small bear. Delovoa was in the process of giving a speech about imagining an apex predator that blah, blah, blah, when the morlian climbed on a table, hopped out an open window, and departed for a region that had less Delovoa.

As for me, nothing changed.

My mutant regeneration could handle my broken bones, lacerations, tears, and everything other than my, apparently, still-bad breath. I was back to full health when MTB was still at 25% and Fate was in 25 pieces.

I didn’t get any money out of all this and probably lost a small fortune in missed opportunities, dead animals, and camping supplies.

But, you know, I helped a kid.

And while that didn’t erase any of my debts, or even buy me a decent meal, I had to say that it felt pretty damn good.





