HARD LUCK HANK



STANK DELICIOUS



by

Steven Campbell





web page: http://www.belvaille.com



facebook: http://www.facebook.com/hardluckhank





cover art by Ian Llanas

back cover by Le Manh Cuong

proofreading by http://lectorsbooks.com/editing





All images and content Copyright © 2016 Steven Campbell

All rights reserved.





Web links may incur a data charge, may not be available at future dates, and are subject to change.





Hank Back Cover:

http://belvaille.com/hlh5/Hank.jpg





This is dedicated to the game designers, game makers, players, and spectators. I’ve got bad knees, bad feet, and I’ve wasted years of my life chasing balls, cursors, and game pieces. But I can’t say I regret any of it.





TABLE OF CONTENTS:

Author’s Forward

PRESENT DAY, CHAPTER 1

TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 1

TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 2

TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 3

TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 4

TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 5

TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 6

TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 7

TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 8

TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 9

TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 10

PRESENT DAY, CHAPTER 2

CHAPTER 3

CHAPTER 4

CHAPTER 5

CHAPTER 6

CHAPTER 7

CHAPTER 8

CHAPTER 9

CHAPTER 10

CHAPTER 11

CHAPTER 12

CHAPTER 13

CHAPTER 14

CHAPTER 15

CHAPTER 16

CHAPTER 17

CHAPTER 18

CHAPTER 19

CHAPTER 20

CHAPTER 21

CHAPTER 22

CHAPTER 23

CHAPTER 24

CHAPTER 25

CHAPTER 26

CHAPTER 27

CHAPTER 28

CHAPTER 29

CHAPTER 30

CHAPTER 31

CHAPTER 32

CHAPTER 33

CHAPTER 34

CHAPTER 35

CHAPTER 36

CHAPTER 37

CHAPTER 38

CHAPTER 39

CHAPTER 40

CHAPTER 41

CHAPTER 42

CHAPTER 43

CHAPTER 44

CHAPTER 45

CHAPTER 46

CHAPTER 47

CHAPTER 48

CHAPTER 49

CHAPTER 50

CHAPTER 51

CHAPTER 52

CHAPTER 53

CHAPTER 54

CHAPTER 55

CHAPTER 56

CHAPTER 57

CHAPTER 58

CHAPTER 59

CHAPTER 60

CHAPTER 61

CHAPTER 62

CHAPTER 63

CHAPTER 64

CHAPTER 65

CHAPTER 66

CHAPTER 67

CHAPTER 68

CHAPTER 69

CHAPTER 70

The Unnecessarily Detailed Description of Glocken

Belvaille Glocken Team Line-Up





Author’s Forward


There are two chapters at the end of the book which are optional. They explain the rules of glocken and display the positions of the team. Starting with those may provide greater insight into the fictional sport of glocken, but they are not mandatory.





PRESENT DAY, CHAPTER 1




I was going to die.

I mean, yeah, we’re all going to die, that’s nothing special. Any fool can die. And fools are usually better at it than most. But I knew exactly what was going to kill me, and I knew when it was going to kill me, and I wasn’t doing anything to prevent it.

Was that brave or stupid?

I was scared. So scared my feet, back, and shoulders were tingling. My nose was running and my eyes were watering. I was sweating so much I could feel it pooling in my shorts.

Six feet in front of me stood my executioner.

It was a lobster-like creature over fourteen feet tall. Unlike me, it didn’t wear any body armor because it didn’t need it. It had a hard, ridged carapace over every segment of its body, eight legs on an abdomen that stretched behind it, two arms that ended in pincers, and a torso nearly as wide as I was tall. Its head possessed no eyes, no nose, no ears, just three long, probing antennae, and a frightening set of serrated mandibles that made a shrill scraping noise when they flexed. It was a sparkly green color that might be called “pretty” if it wasn’t painted on such a monstrosity.

The creature had been selected, after an extensive search of the entire galaxy, as one of the best physical specimens in existence. It had one goal: to move forward and crush any opposition in its way.

I had one goal: to stop it.

It reached down and picked up a weighted, electronic disk which it carried by one of the two flexible handles. The creature managed the disk casually, its stance barely shifting, even though I knew the token weighed more than I did.

There were almost 20,000 people surrounding us, watching. Even if I wanted to leave, the spectators would have stopped me.

The lights flashed, the crowd roared, and the creature charged forward.

My arms were ready and my eyes searched for a weakness. The enemy loomed up and I tried to grapple its waist, but it simply ran me over. I felt eight legs, and thousands of pounds, hammer me into the ground as it passed by.

I had barely slowed it and in exchange I had suffered a minor concussion and cracked a rib.

I got to my feet and ran after it the best I could. It was carrying a 4,000-pound token and still moved almost as fast as me.

As I was nearing the creature, I looked over in time to see a massive rock beast swing his fist like a pendulum and hit a furry, bipedal animal. The animal screamed and I heard bones snap as it flew directly over my head and landed twenty feet away.

The rock beast started to say something to me, but I knew he spoke too slowly to be of any help so I continued my pursuit of the crustacean.

I caught up to it and grabbed it by its right hind leg. I got pulled off my feet as it began dragging me along with its seven other legs.

I made my lower body as limp as possible, trying to create friction with the ground to slow the monster down.

The creature took that enormous token and swung it backward, missing my head by two feet. If it had connected, it could have decapitated me.

It then kicked me in the face with its right middle leg. It had plenty of legs, and the kicking continued, coming from all sides. My upper body was taking most of the blows and my face felt like raw meat—that was well past its expiration date.

After a particularly brutal punt to the head, I yelled:

“Unnecessary Cranial!”

A man rode next to us on a motorized unicycle. He was fully encased in armor and had a shielded helmet with cameras that could zoom in, out, replay, and view from nearly any angle. He didn’t even look in my direction.

“Stuff it,” he said, speeding up to watch something else.

The creature reached back with a claw to try and remove me from its leg. I avoided the pincer and grabbed hold of its forearm. After several strong shakes, however, I couldn’t maintain my grip on its shell and I slipped off.

The creature stood on its rear four legs and kicked me with its front two, sending me rolling.

I was attempting to stand up when a voice cried out:

“Hank, get down!”

I lay flat.

A muscular, brown-skinned man jumped over me and rammed his massive, bony head into the crustacean just under its right arm.

There was a crack so loud it probably could have broken windows with the vibrations.

The monster reeled from the blow and tilted…tilted…tilted. And it fell across a one-foot curb that designated the end of the field. But the most important point was that the token had fallen out of bounds as well.

That was it. It was all over.

I dragged myself over to our side of the field. I was bleeding from my eyes, my ears, my nose, and probably my hair follicles.

My fingers were jammed from trying to hold onto the creature and I felt like I had more sprains than I had muscles.

I was met by an old woman of an unusual species. Her body looked like a large, flabby teardrop. She had impossibly thin arms with seemingly nothing but skin over them. Her legs were squat and short and her feet were enormous, which made her waddle when she walked. She had no discernable shoulders, and no neck, just a big head with pointy black eyes over which she wore thick glasses. Her skin was yellowish with white flakes. She was capable of yelling a command across the entire field, out into the street, down to the port, where it could board a ship, take a Portal, go to another planet, dock, and scream at people in an entirely different stadium.

Magda Strongarm looked at my sad state with disdain.

“In my 153 years of coaching professional glocken that was the worst playing I have ever seen. Now get ready for the next play!”





TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 1




There was, for the most part, no weather in space.

No rain clouds. No summer breezes. No blizzards. No chilly northwest winds that whipped off the lake and made you despise going to work early.

So for the many people who lived in space, or travelled between star systems, there was nothing to make small talk about. If you got stuck in the elevator with someone, you might share a quick smile, but then you were reduced to clearing your throat or examining your fingernails.

As more and more people took up residence in space, this lack of light subject matter simply wouldn’t do. The galaxy was becoming socially awkward.

It was then that glocken filled the void.

Glocken was a sport. It was a professional sport played nearly everywhere and at nearly every skill level by nearly every species. Its games, from amateur to dozens of professional levels, were televised across the galaxy. It was the source of gambling fortunes, aristocratic ventures, and the idolization of youth and adults alike.

But more importantly, it gave people something to talk about.

Even if you hated glocken, or knew nothing about it, you could still talk about the Reskin Sleepers. The Reskin Sleepers were an ancient team, one of the first ever created, and they had never won a game. It was the longest losing streak of not only any professional team, but of anything whatsoever.

Making fun of the Reskin Sleepers was small talk that was practiced by species that couldn’t even speak Colmarian and had never seen a glocken game in their lives.

The civil war had decimated vast areas of the galaxy. Planets and Systems had been laid to waste. Whole races exterminated. And when its remaining people wanted to buckle under the burden of rebuilding, to sob at the enormity of their problems, they only had to remember that the Reskin Sleepers had been failures for thousands and thousands of years and were still at it.

The team really put things into perspective.

Once insanely unpopular, the Reskin Sleepers had become the former Colmarian Confederation’s home team. They were a testament that losing could almost be transcendent.



Which is why I stood speechless in the Arvesh Coliseum on the space station Belvaille.

The Reskin Sleepers were winning!

It wasn’t that Lord Burrey’s Roustabouts were losing, the Sleepers were executing brilliant plays of staggering complexity. The players were battering the opposition into submission.

I had been a fan of the Reskin Sleepers almost my whole life, long before it was trendy. They made me feel competent by comparison. But I had never expected them to win. Not in my wildest dreams.

The stadium was dead silent. Twenty thousand people couldn’t be made this quiet even if they were individually held at gunpoint, but you could hear a sneeze from across the stadium.

The game had been going on for nearly four hours and the Reskin 6-lane scored again. That was 11 points. Each lane carried progressively heavier tokens, worth progressively more points, and the players were progressively higher weight classes. The 1-lane being the lightest, worth the fewest points, the 8-lane being the heaviest, worth the most.

The score was now 256 for the Reskin Sleepers—glocken scores only kept track of the winning team. It was an impossibly high tally.

The referees called the game due to lack of competition.

The Reskin Sleepers had won!

There was a long moment of silence.

The referees repeated their conclusion several times, as if they couldn’t believe it themselves.

And suddenly, in the stands, a woman two rows down from me began screaming. Just opened her mouth and screamed. Another person took up the yelling.

Soon enough there was an explosion of…I wouldn’t call it jubilation. People were clawing at themselves, flailing at the sky, shrieking to whatever gods or psychic powers they held dear.

One of the most certain certainties in the universe had become untrue. If the Reskin Sleepers could win a game, what was next? Would light travel backwards? Would the vacuum of space suddenly have a minty scent? It was completely irrational.

I looked down at the field, which wasn’t easy with all the commotion. There I saw the new head coach and general manager of the Reskin Sleepers, a man by the name of Irune. He had taken this team, thrown out all the old players, the old plays, and gotten them their first victory in the history of the sport.

Irune wore a dark suit, a dark pair of sunglasses, a dark hat. From what I could tell, during the whole game, he never once moved or spoke a word.





TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 2




Leaving the stadium wasn’t easy.

It was elevated about 200 feet above the street so there could be buildings underneath, but that limited the number of exits.

The space station Belvaille itself was an exact square, fifteen miles by fifteen miles. It had tremendously diverse buildings of nearly every composition and design. There were spiraling, multi-colored towers; fat, steel monoliths; concrete domes painted with exquisite murals; and everything in between.

The tallest building was still City Hall which stood in the center of the space station. It was about a hundred stories in height. Not far above that was the latticework which contained the lights and life support for the city. Past that was the shield which kept our atmosphere in place and protected us from meteors and radiation and such.

I pushed my way through the crowd of frenzied glocken patrons. I noticed the stalls selling memorabilia were being overrun by rioters. A memento from the day the Reskin Sleepers had won would be a tremendous collector’s item.

I reached a stairwell and I was approached almost immediately by a wild-eyed man wielding a cruel blade about ten inches long.

“Give me your ticket stub or I’ll cut your throat,” he snarled.

Now, this guy was about half my size. I was a large person in general, taller than average. But I also weighed thousands of pounds and had a strength nearly equal to my weight. Admittedly, I was more than a bit sluggish.

But I was an Ontakian. A species that was impervious to small arms and even some large arms. In the times I did get injured, I was capable of healing at vastly accelerated rates.

This guy did not remotely frighten me.

I pointed to my heraldry on my left breast. It was a silver circle with a golden fist in the foreground, the knuckles facing outward. The fist was larger than the circle.

It was a badge given to me by the Arch Minister Maris-To himself. I was a Factotum of Belvaille System. Which meant I was authorized to do all kinds of nefarious work on behalf of the nobles who lived here.

Of course, this guy didn’t know that and didn’t care. He lunged and gashed me right across the gut. He hadn’t been content to stab me, he had to slash, which tore two of my buttons off my suit vest.

“My buttons!” I screamed. I had to wear nice clothes as a Factotum. It was expected. Now my butler was going to yell at me for getting my clothes trashed.

My unexpected response, of not dropping to the ground and bleeding, made the wild-eyed man’s eyes go even wilder and he swung again, cutting my jacket sleeve from my elbow to my wrist.

Of course, I barely felt it—at least physically. But I could feel the economic pain up to my ears, because now my suit was definitely ruined. I should have just given him the damn ticket.

I raised my fists and began plodding toward the man. He swung at my hands and connected, but the knife clattered off my dense fingers and fell out of his grasp. If he had just run down the stairs I wouldn’t have been able to catch him. But no, everyone wanted to be difficult.

I grabbed him by the shoulders and…now what?

I had a policy of punishing people when they shot, or stabbed, or punched me. I just felt it was good business. Even if they didn’t hurt me, I couldn’t let people know it was okay to hit me with a shovel and I would just laugh it off like a sap. That’s not the reputation you want to have in a System like Belvaille, where people are more than happy to hit you with shovels.

As I was thinking what bones to break on this guy, the door to the stairwell opened behind me.

“Hank,” I heard someone say.

I looked back, expecting to see someone else with a knife who was keen on shredding my wardrobe.

But I knew the guy. He was a runner for the bookie Ulteem. Well, Ulteem wasn’t really a bookie. He was a gambling Lord. An actual noble who lived on Belvaille.

Belvaille, for the most part, only housed nobles and their servants. Some incredibly wealthy people lived here. I wasn’t incredibly wealthy, but I had been here for so long, I was grandfathered in.

“Uh, hi,” I said.

“You busy?” he asked, indicating the guy I was holding.

“Not really. What’s up?”

“Ulteem wants to talk to you. Also, to settle on your winnings.”

“What winnings?” I asked.

“You bet on the Sleepers to win.” He said it suspiciously, like I couldn’t possibly have forgotten.

I had bet on the Reskin Sleepers for something like 200 years. In a way it was greasing the palms of bookies, who I often had to work with, but like I said, they were my favorite team. And I kind of felt it was an exercise in positive thinking.

“Sure,” I said. “Is he at home?”

“Yeah. Come whenever you like.”

“Hey,” I said, “you mind taking care of this guy? He tried to knife me. Well, did knife me.”

It was an odd request to make of someone else’s employee and I’m not sure what I was expecting.

The runner shrugged indifferently. He removed a pistol from his jacket, walked forward, and hit the wild-eyed man across the face with it. He then looked to me for confirmation.

“Thanks,” I said.





TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 3




I managed to get to the parking garage and my limo, but there were problems there as well. My driver couldn’t get us out because of the large number of people jumping and dancing on cars or otherwise behaving in a traffic-congestingly manner.

Finally, I had enough, and since my suit was already destroyed, I got out and began pushing cars out of the way. Just used my weight and either dragged them or tipped them over. Fans could continue mistreating vehicles, just off to the side so my limo could exit.

I was sweating and dirty and exhausted by the time I cleared a path.

Fortunately, my butler kept the limo stocked with food and booze. Even when not acting like a junk yard, I ate a lot of food. All the time. It was one side effect of being an Ontakian.

My home was located at One, One, Hank Block.

I owned a five-story building. It was one of the ways I could afford to live on Belvaille. I rented out the top three floors and the roof for storage. I would rent out the sidewalk in front if they let me. I used to own another building, but it was too expensive to keep so I sold it.

I didn’t actually live on a street called “Hank Block,” only the building was called that. Streets could have ten different names within the same block or one name with a ten-block radius if it was owned by a wealthy nobleman.

It was not easy to give directions in Belvaille.

I tiptoed up to my door as quietly as a couple-thousand-pound guy could, and the door immediately opened as I reached it.

Cliston, my butler, stood as imposing as ever.

Cliston was a Dredel Led. A robotic species from the other side of the galaxy. Long ago the Colmarians had been at war with the Dredel Led, but long ago the Colmarians had been at war with everyone. Since the Colmarian Confederation didn’t exist anymore, and I wasn’t a Colmarian anyway, I figured it didn’t really matter.

In appearance, Cliston’s chest formed an upside-down triangle. He was tall and broad, yet incredibly nimble. His face had two glowing eyes and a speaker grid for a mouth. He was black metal with horizontal white pinstripes.

As a butler, Cliston took 15% of all my earnings and had full say over my wardrobe, expenses, domestic staff, and nearly everything else except when I went to the bathroom. He handled all my money, which normally would make me uncomfortable.

But a good butler wouldn’t rob me. And Cliston wasn’t just a good butler, Cliston was the best butler in the city. The best butler in the entire Belvaille System—and there were an awful lot of good butlers around here.

“Sir,” he said, in his deep robotic baritone.

He removed my jacket and handed me a drink without asking.

I was waiting for him to say something about the damage to my clothes, but he merely stood there. Which made me nervous.

“Um. Cliston. About my coat. I saved one of the buttons, but I couldn’t find the other one,” I said, holding up the bejeweled button like it was a very small shield.

His dexterous fingers quickly took it from me.

“Very good, sir. You are smudged and look tired. Shall I draw a bath and prepare a meal?”

Hmm, he was taking it well. That also made me nervous. Cliston seemed to relish scolding me for not acting more like a gentleman, even though he was fully aware that I was in the ungentlemanly business of being a Factotum.

My home, although small, was exquisite.

Cliston would rotate all the furniture and artwork every 2-4 months. Sometimes he would get modern work from undiscovered artists. Sometimes it was ethnic pieces from some distant planet.

And of course there were the tours. The butlers of major homes would regularly visit my building with the idea of upgrading the living quarters of their own employers. I found it all highly annoying and was going to tell Cliston to stop, as I felt like a stranger in my own home.

That is, until he pointed out that every time he switched styles, he would auction off my old belongings at a handsome profit.

Cliston was one of the city’s tastemakers and my house was an art gallery. I suppose I could put up with a few gilded fountains in my hallway if it helped me earn a living.

At least the second floor of my building was relatively tranquil. That’s where my office was and there wasn’t nearly as much foppish finery.

I had eaten about ten pounds of Cliston’s delicious food, and a half-gallon of his homebrewed beer, and was soaking up to my neck in the tub, feeling good.

“Cliston, make a note that I have to visit Ulteem,” I said.

“Very good. And when should I schedule this?”

“Whenever.”

“You have your Factotum conference the day after tomorrow,” he said.

“I guess I have to go. Make me a bag lunch,” I said.

Not only was Cliston one of the best cooks around, but I had to eat special food because of my species. Normal food and water were mild toxins to me and they caused me to gain more and more weight as time went on. I don’t mean I got fat, every part of me became denser, from my bones to my skin. There was a point in my life I had been well over 10,000 pounds and was having monthly heart attacks, but a mutant of incredible power had sorted me out by rebuilding my body.

Mutants were mostly gone from the galaxy now. They had been created as a policy of the Colmarian Confederation. There were a handful here and there but the majority had very minor abilities.

“You also have a meeting with Procon Hobb,” Cliston said.

“Who?”

“Procon Hobb,” he repeated. As if saying his name twice would make me know him.

“Who’s that?”

“Just someone who would like to meet you, sir.”

I got a bit annoyed. Cliston knew I liked handling my own deals. He had waited until I was food-buzzed before mentioning this.

“Is that his name or his title?” I asked.

“Procon is his title. It’s being phased out, I believe,” he said.

I snorted. He was probably on his way down along with his title.

“He’s quite wealthy. He owns several solar systems and large shipping rights as well as numerous other enterprises,” Cliston added.

“Oh,” I said, immediately changing my opinion of the man. “Do you know what he wants?”

“I suspect you’ll learn when you see him, sir.”

I looked up at Cliston. I believe he was literally incapable of sarcasm. But sometimes I wasn’t sure if Cliston saying he couldn’t be sarcastic was the ultimate way of being sarcastic.

This Hobb guy probably needed me to work out a contract with a labor union, get a gang to back off, or work out a deal with a rival. It would be easy money.

“Sure,” I told Cliston. “I’ll see him. New buttons aren’t free. Did you hear the Reskin Sleepers won tonight?”

“I did, sir. I’m going to be making you a whole new wardrobe,” he said.

“A whole wardrobe? Why? How are those connected?”

“I know you placed your traditional wager on the Reskin Sleepers to win. The odds were 100,000 to 1.”





TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 4




The Arch Minister, Maris-To, controlled everything in the System. He even controlled the Central Authority, our closest thing to a military, and all its warships.

And he controlled the Portals. The Portals were what made Belvaille System special. Indeed, Belvaille was arguably the trade hub of the post-civil war, post-Colmarian Confederation.

The Portals let ships travel instantaneously anywhere in the galaxy there was a connecting Portal. And Belvaille System had countless Portals. The most, by far, of any System.

The space station Belvaille shared the name of the System it was in, but it was just one habitation here. The space station, was, however, the “capital” of the System, and the largest single dwelling. There were maybe a million citizens on the space station.

There were, I’d guess, five billion people in the entire System. Maybe more. Millions of ships of all sizes were floating in Belvaille System, contributing to, or sponging off, our vast economy.

The Arch Minister delegated business interests in the city and System to nobles. Nobles were just wealthy people from across the galaxy who came to Belvaille.

It didn’t matter if you commanded a planet if your goods and services couldn’t use the Portals. You’d still have your planet, but the nobles on Belvaille had access to trade across the entire galaxy. The opportunities in Belvaille were tremendous. But you really needed to be here in person to get anything done.

The Arch Minister didn’t allow the nobles much in the way of security forces, however. He was paranoid about coups, and for good reason, since it was how he had originally taken power.

So the nobles, in theory, had control of all the refining ships, and transport ships, and workers, and markets, and exchanges that existed in Belvaille System.

But they had no way of enforcing that control.

That’s where the gangs and Factotums came in.

The space station Belvaille was relatively safe, but off-station was another story. Gangs were constantly fighting proxy wars on behalf of their nobles, trying to monopolize resources, workers, wages, or whatever.

Sure, the Central Authority had warships, enough to quell any rebellion ten times over, but you couldn’t use a warship to make people productive. Or stop blackmail. Or prevent sabotage. The Central Authority was too blunt an object to be of much use.

But a gang could have people on all the ships, busting heads and keeping order—or disturbing order, if that was needed.

I don’t mean the gangs were like tattooed, bearded, smelly thugs in ratty clothes, though some were. They were the organized criminals who got the actual work done. Somewhere up the chain an order would be given by a noble and it would be haggled over and fought about and settled by the gangs. The nobles didn’t particularly care how it got done, they just wanted it done.

Of course, if any gang got too out of line, the Arch Minister would have the Central Authority squash them.

However, nobles weren’t immune to getting bumped off by a particularly annoyed gang. But that was bad for business considering nobles usually represented, in some form, very significant resources in another part of the galaxy.

Where I came in, and the other Factotums, is that we negotiated between the gangs and the nobles. We were essentially middlemen. The nobles were required to use our services. It was another way the Arch Minister limited the nobility, preventing them from having direct access to gangs or other large forces.





TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 5




The next day Cliston dressed me to go see Ulteem.

I told him I would be going armed, so he chose a suit that matched my gun.

As a Factotum, I had a License to Hurt. However, it had very practical limitations on a space station that was crawling with police. If I went around shooting people without cause, I’d find my license revoked or, quite possibly, my life revoked.

I was a very poor shot because of my slow reflexes, so one of my favorite guns was a huge blunderbuss.

The firearm was inlayed with vivid designs, encrusted with gems, and covered with precious metals. But underneath all that, it was still a gigantic gun whose muzzle ballooned out to twelve inches in width. It fired nearly a pound of steel pellets and had a recoil that could rock me back on my heels. It was only single shot and I didn’t carry any spare ammunition because it was too bulky, too dangerous, and took too long to reload to be practical.

The appearance of the blunderbuss was usually enough to make most people not want to see it in action.

I wasn’t sure if Ulteem was going to cause trouble, but if he owed me as much money as I thought he did, it didn’t hurt to be prepared.

Ulteem lived in a condominium complex in the south. It was about twenty stories tall. He had an entire floor of his own, which was pretty nice.

There was some discussion at the entrance on whether or not I could bring my blunderbuss inside, but finally the guards relented.

The whole floor was mostly one giant apartment with a few sunken areas. There were some private rooms to the side which were presumably sleeping quarters and bathrooms. Two of Ulteem’s flunkies walked me to their boss, who was sitting in the middle of the room around a large table talking to some of his lieutenants.

Ulteem was a relatively normal-looking Colmarian except he didn’t have a head. He had two arms, two legs, a torso, just no head or neck. There had been around 50,000 species in the old Colmarian Confederation and you quickly learned there was no such thing as unusual.

“Hank,” he said when I came closer.

I always wondered where his mouth was, but figured it would be impolite to ask.

“Ulteem,” I acknowledged.

“You plan on bombarding us? What’s with the cannon?” he said.

“This is just decoration,” I answered, patting my blunderbuss.

“Right. Oh, excuse me,” he said. He reached beneath his chair and picked up a plastic head and put it on top of his torso. It attached to his coat. The head had a pleasant expression and was painted in high detail.

I wasn’t sure if Ulteem wore his fake head in an attempt to make people feel comfortable or uncomfortable. It gave you something to focus on, but it was frozen in mid-smile and was tilted slightly askew.

“Have a seat,” he said.

The two lieutenants had been scowling at me this whole time and they weren’t about to give up their chairs. I sat in the only empty one left and it shattered under my weight, leaving me sprawled on my back.

Normally I tested chairs before sitting, but it had looked sturdy enough and I had presumed, incorrectly, that Ulteem would have offered me a chair that could support me. He knew I wasn’t a light guy, just like I knew he didn’t have a head.

“Are you alright?” Ulteem asked innocently.

“Sure, sure. I’ll just sit on the floor,” I said. Again, I didn’t know if Ulteem had planned that. Some of these encounters can be so stilted and full of one-upmanship. But I was used to these games and didn’t embarrass easily.

“So what can I do for you, Hank?” he asked.

“You owe me for my Reskin Sleepers bet,” I said.

“Oh, that’s right. That’s right. Hank,” he began delicately, “how did you know?”

“Know what?”

“They would win!” He almost shouted.

“I didn’t. I like the Reskin Sleepers.”

He jerked back and his fake head wobbled.

“Come on. You’re the only person on the station who laid that bet. You must have had an inside angle.”

“How do you know no one else bet?”

“Because no one else was taking any action on it. I was the only one dumb enough to think it was a legit wager,” he said.

“It was legit. I was as surprised as anyone. More, probably.”

“That’s not what I heard. They say you left the Coliseum pretty quick.”

“What, am I going to hang around and riot and set fires? I’m too old for that nonsense,” I said.

“Hank, if you knew something, you should have come to me. As a business partner. I could have backed you and we could have floated bets in the Sector.”

“I thought you said no one else was taking action,” I said.

“You’re the only person that bet, that’s why! So how did you know they would win?”

“I didn’t, Ulteem. They got a new coach, ask him.”

“Oh, funny guy,” he said angrily. “You mocking me, now?”

He reached up to his fake head, put a palm over the mouth, and dragged downward. The smile that had been on the mannequin face was suddenly replaced with a frown. The action momentarily threw me.

“Uh. What are you talking about?”

“Wait! Do you know Irune? Did you talk to him? Is that how you knew they would win?”

“I always bet on the Reskin Sleepers. I have for maybe 250 years. I didn’t know they were going to win. Look, are you trying to get out of paying me or something?”

“I didn’t say that. I just wanted in on what you knew. And, if you got something going, I want you to think of me. Sure, you made some money off the bet, but if I had known there was a fix, we could have owned this city.”

“No one can own Belvaille except Maris-To,” I replied.

“Don’t count on it. He’s not as strong as all that. If he disappeared tomorrow, the gangs would run this station,” he said.

“That’s dangerous talk. But I didn’t know the Sleepers would win. I swear it,” I said.

“And why should we believe you?” one of the lieutenants sneered at me.

“Shut up, flunky, I’m a Factotum. Talk tough to a wrench jockey off-station. I don’t mind a bit of a runaround, Ulteem, but I’ll be damned if I let some thick-neck patsy talk down to me. I’ve been breaking heads on this station back when it was still under Colmarian Confederation rule!”

“Easy, easy, Hank,” Ulteem said. “I’ve got your winnings.”

Most big money transactions went through the banks, which were controlled by a species known as the Ank, the financial wizards of the galaxy. But Ulteem wasn’t a bank kind of guy. We walked into one of the back rooms and then I learned what forty million credits looked like in physical form.

A lot.

It was a stack of bills about four feet tall, five feet deep, and five feet wide.

“What the hell am I supposed to do with that?” I asked.

“I don’t know. Buy a smaller gun?” Ulteem said.

“How am I going to move it?”

“I can sell you some bags and offer the assistance of my men for…five million credits.”

I looked at Ulteem’s “face” to see if he was smirking. But it was just as frozen and plastic as ever.

“Forget it, no. I’ll move it,” I said.

I called up Cliston on my tele and had him bring over all my servants. The dishwasher, the floor polisher, the limo driver, the lady who folded my socks, the lady who made my socks, and the countless people I didn’t even know.

Cliston trusted them, or he wouldn’t have hired them. And if Cliston trusted them, I trusted them to haul my money. So they started making trips from the pile to the limo, carrying armfuls of cash. I stood guard in the apartment itself.

“This is causing quite a disturbance,” Ulteem said, after about an hour. We hadn’t even shifted a small amount at this point. “I’m going to have to close up soon, I can’t just leave my door open to the galaxy. This is my apartment.”

“Anyone that gets in front of that door or my people is going to get shot,” I said, brandishing my blunderbuss.

“I thought you said that was a decoration,” Ulteem replied.

“It is. You’ll be shot by a very handsome weapon.”

It took a tremendous amount of time, but we eventually moved it all to the car and drove home. The suspension on my limo was taking a beating and I heard a terrible grinding noise if we went over thirty miles an hour.

Cliston counted all the bills and it was more than a hundred thousand short, but I wasn’t going to make a stink.

It would take nearly as long to move it inside my home from the car. Then we’d have to move it back, and then out a third time to deposit in a bank. Life was too short for all that. So I had the car parked in the street like usual, and tipped off the local Central Authority that it needed guarding. I slipped them some money and hired a few goons of my own to protect it as well.

I slept in the back seat in a pile of pillows, blankets, and guns.

Cliston arranged for an auction the next day.

Five financial-type people came over and got the specifics. They bid on my car and its contents. The winning bid was 4.03% less than the total value of the cash, with the car thrown in for free, which wasn’t a bad deal for everyone involved.

I removed all the food and liquor ahead of time.

“That was annoying,” I said, when it had finally been concluded.

“It is still quite a windfall, sir. We’ll need to get your latest measurements for your clothes and a new car of course,” Cliston said.

Forty million was a lot of money. I could probably live off that in my exact same lifestyle for a couple years. Of course, now that Cliston had his oily little fingers on it, my lifestyle would immediately improve.

Or at least “improve” by his reckoning. It seemed the more money I got, the less comfortable my home became.





TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 6




It was the next day and I was in a large conference hall sitting at a table with four other men and one creature of indeterminate gender.

The room was filled with several hundred butlers, security chiefs, gang leaders, and even a few minor nobles.

Public speaking was a real drag and I wasn’t good at it. Sure, I could talk to a few dozen angry guys armed with rocket launchers, but formal speaking made my palms go sweaty. Well, sweatier than usual.

It was my turn to speak and I went up to the podium.

“Hello. My name is Hank.”

Silence from the audience.

“I am Factotum license number 00003. There is no 1 or 2. They spelled my name wrong on the first two forms. I was the first Factotum appointed by Arch Minister Maris-To for helping him become Arch Minister.”

I shuffled through my cards.

“Um. I am a good person to hire because I have worked with nearly every industry in Belvaille System. I am the oldest continuous resident of the space station and retain quite a few contacts both underworld and with the government. Some of the groups I have worked with are the Quadrad, the Farmer’s Collective #208, the Central Authority, Smeltworks, Beggar’s Alliance, Arkold’s Face Wreckers, and Master Viqer Denn.”

Still no reactions other than crossed legs and folded arms.

“I used to be Governor of the city, I used to be the head of law enforcement, I have gone toe-to-head with the Therezian Wallow on numerous occasions and survived. I’ve fought tanks, assault-level Dredel Led, and witnessed the start of the civil war. And I’m still here. If you need Factotum services, call on me, Hank. I have reasonable prices and offer discounts for repeat business.”

No one seemed particularly impressed.

“I would also like to mention that I have my own heraldry,” I said. “As the only Factotum with a sigil, I have a great understanding of the needs and concerns that nobles face.”

Some interested murmurs at that.

“Oh, and Cliston is my butler,” I added.

Finally, people began whispering about my significance.

“Thank you,” I said, figuring it was best to end on a high note rather than go through the other lists of accomplishments that no one cared about.

There was a smattering of applause and I saw some people writing.

The last speaker was my main Factotum competition.

I suppose that wasn’t accurate. We didn’t compete that much, he just took all the business.

He was a lean man, muscular, and wore his fashionable clothes a lot more effortlessly than I did. He had red, scaly skin of a color so deep it bordered on black. His eyes were yellow and piercing and he had three slits for a nose. If it wasn’t for his mouth, he would look like a stereotypical villain. But his mouth was filled with giant herbivore teeth. Big old chompers. He couldn’t close his skin over his massive teeth so he always looked like he had this enormous goofy smile.

“Hello, ladies and gentlemen and others. My name is Xandale of Univox Factotal. I’d like to thank you all for coming and listening to us each give the…merits of our respective businesses.” He looked up the table at me. I couldn’t tell if he was smiling more, because that was hardly possible, but it seemed like it.

“There are numerous Factotums you can deal with in this System, but only one Factotum agency: Univox Factotal. We don’t just have a single Factotum and some hired punks, we have over seventy-five Factotums on staff and hundreds of other operatives. It’s simple numbers, is one going to get the job done faster and better than seventy-five?”

The whole two front rows applauded vigorously. It was then I noticed that he had stacked those seats with all his own people. No wonder I got such a chilly reception.

“I could talk to you about who we work for, the jobs we’ve done, the contracts we’ve fixed, but when we take on assignments, those become private. Your secrets are safe with us. We don’t feel the need to brag about it or air your issues to an auditorium.”

He again looked at me and the front rows went crazy with enthusiasm.

“You pay for quality. I don’t pretend we are the cheapest solution in the System. But when your deal is hanging on the line, or your reputation, or your very life, do you really want to go bargain shopping?”

The front rows stood up cheering as Xandale took his seat. I saw a lot of the audience taking notes and approving.

I hurried back up to the podium. I couldn’t let it end like this or I’d be out of work.

“Hi, Hank again. I’d like to point out that I’ve fulfilled more contracts in this industry than all his Factotums put together and probably multiplied by ten.” That was slightly untrue. But if you counted all the gang negotiations and other crooked jobs I’d done over the centuries, sure. Most of his staff weren’t even alive when I started working.

Xandale returned to the podium and leaned past me into the microphone.

“That’s correct. Hank has done a tremendous amount of work here. And I would like to point out he specifically had a hand in ending the Colmarian Confederation. A job was offered to him that meant the deaths of countless billions of people and he didn’t even think twice. I ask you, do you want to hire someone without any decency? Without any honor?”

Damn. I should have kept my mouth shut. What he said was only kind of true as well, but I couldn’t just say “nuh, uh.” The main perpetrator of the Colmarian civil war was an immortal without a name. I just called him “Naked Guy.” When I learned what he was doing, I did my best to stop him, but it was too late at that point. I disintegrated him, what else could I do?

“I’m bulletproof,” I blurted, trying to fill the silence as I thought up something better to add.

“Yes,” Xandale began smoothly. “Everyone knows of Hank’s resilience and inclination toward violence. But I prefer the softer approach. You can’t shoot a thousand people every time you have a disagreement. You need cooperation and understanding. When contracts break, call us and we’ll fix them. You can’t fix what’s broken by breaking something else.”

Wow, I was so losing this debate.

“The two times that I went up against Univox Factotal, my clients won. If you want decency, if you want propriety, if you want little embroidered napkins, then hire Xandale. Maybe I don’t have manners, but I get results. Thank you,” I said.

I left the podium slowly, waiting to see if Xandale was going to respond. I watched the calculations flicker in his eyes. He probably considered this a good place to stop since we were both getting bloody.

He already got most of the jobs, anyway.





TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 7




“Hey, this is too tight,” I said to Cliston, as he dressed me in my new suit. I was getting ready for the meeting with the noble Procon Hobb, which Cliston had arranged.

Cliston did most of my tailoring because he was simply better than anyone else and I was a very hard fit. He also knew my dislike for outfits that were too stuffy or constricting. Especially since I tended to end up in fights, and I wouldn’t do so well if I had my arms pinned to my sides and a perpetual wedgie.

“It shows off your physique, sir,” Cliston answered.

“Why do I want to show off my physique? I’m not a model.”

“I heard about your talk at the Factotum Conference,” he stated.

“Ugh, don’t remind me.”

“Maybe it would be good to rebrand yourself a bit. You already are one of the more, shall we say, ‘unpolished’ of the Factotums that nobles have to choose from. Perhaps that could be used to your advantage in marketing your services.”

“Great! Does that mean I can go back to dressing myself and having a junky apartment?” I hoped.

“Don’t be silly, sir. The nobles of Belvaille won’t deal with a grimy commoner. You are the first Factotum, after all. But we can cultivate a dangerous and exotic image.”

“Whatever, Cliston. Just loosen the chest in my next suit. I can feel my heart beating all the way down my sleeves.”

Cliston ended my dressing by draping a two-inch-thick, barbed chain from one shoulder to the other, where it hung across my sternum. It looked odd to me, but Cliston knew fashion better than I ever would.

My new limo was called around and Cliston saw me off.

“Remember, sir, highlight your past fights. People are impressed with them, especially the ones with Wallow, seeing as you’re the only person known to have clashed with a Therezian and survived.”

Wallow was a giant that still roamed the space station. He was something like sixty feet tall and incapable of being harmed by anything that wouldn’t also destroy the space station itself. I had been poked by him, punted, hit with a pole, and casually punched. The last one broke nearly every bone in my body and put me in the hospital for months.

But the fact I lived went a long way towards cementing my reputation as a guy you didn’t want to fight.

“Cliston, I’ve talked to nobles before. All the time, actually.”

“I know, sir. And I’m sure you’ll be splendid.”



I had researched Procon Hobb a bit before the meeting, but there wasn’t a lot known about him. He was a minor noble relatively new to the station.

He had, from what I gathered, been given the title Procon simply because he had enough money and resources to be called something. But the older nobles didn’t especially seem to be embracing him.

The aristocracy was quite cliquish. I guess that was part of the definition of aristocracy. They were always trying to ingratiate themselves with the Arch Minister or otherwise stand out from their brethren, as if controlling an entire planet wasn’t enough. It was like all nobles had Short Man Syndrome; or Ugly Woman Syndrome; or, I guess, Lumpy Sludgepile Syndrome for those weird species.

Belvaille System didn’t have a star. It was just empty space. It was only settled because of the unique mechanics that allowed so many Portals to exist here. The closest thing we had to a star was the space station Belvaille and inside it, the Arch Minister Maris-To. Everything revolved around him.

I had been minted a Factotum by the Arch Minister himself, but that was the last I ever saw of him. We had no personal connection at all and I was quite happy with that. Flying too close to a star was dangerous.



Procon Hobb lived in the southeast.

It wasn’t a tremendous building for a noble. It was only ten stories and a rather bland construction. Still, owning a building on Belvaille was a pretty huge deal. I had gotten mine a long, long while ago and I paid a reduced tax rate.

I was led through the building by servants who looked like small, upright lizards. They stood only about four feet tall.

The building was incredibly humid, almost damp. There were giant flowers and other vegetation sprouting all over the place, and in between was naturalistic artwork that didn’t clash with the setting.

Quite to my surprise, I didn’t feel hot. It seemed like I should be hot, but there was a mist and breeze that must have been whisking away any heat from me. It was almost chilly.

What an unusual home.

I was asked to wait outside a large earthen dome. It was a huge pile of soil and sod and growing plants in the middle of a steel building on a space station.

Flanking either side of the entrance were what looked like tall statues decked-out in flowers. The statues had wolf-like heads but reptilian skin and they were bipedal with two arms. They stood nearly as tall as me. They each carried massive poleaxes which, although ceremonial, looked deadly.

I was about to take a closer look at one of the axes, when I saw the statue shift his gaze to me.

Those were alive!

They had a thick layer of dust on them and spotting from the mist. Some of their flowers were wilted, dead, or somewhere in between. They looked like dirty statues that had stood there for years.

In any case, they didn’t appear friendly. And I can’t imagine they would appreciate me borrowing their poleaxes, so I admired the nearby plants instead.

You were either a flower person or not. I felt like once you’d seen maybe a dozen different types of flowers, you’d seen their whole bag of tricks. Sure, one might be blue instead of red or have wide petals instead of spiky, but they were still plants. You weren’t going to sit down and have a conversation with one.

I never really understood their appeal.

This whole building was practically making my eyes water. I probably had spores growing on my brain there was so much pollen in the air.

A small lizard person exited the earthen hut and told me I could go in.

I walked inside, watching the guards as I passed, and their eyes followed me.

Inside it was spacious but gloomy, having only small fires here and there for illumination.

In the corner was a pond and a very large creature sat in it up to its waist. I’d guess it was about ten feet tall if it could stand.

It looked like a large amphibian with a solid head and wide mouth. Its arms were thickly scaled and ended in massive claws about a foot in length each. Its chest was ribbed with hard bands that disappeared into the water. Its neck was enormous and thick and insanely wrinkled and sinewy. Each of its two black eyes was about as big as one of my fists.

Cliston was standing next to it!

“Cliston, what are you doing here?” I asked, surprised.

“I’ll let Procon Hobb answer that, sir,” he said.

I looked at the large thing.

“Greetings, Hank,” my own voice said in my head, suddenly.

It was my inner voice. When I’m talking to myself in my head, that’s the voice I heard. It was speaking without my command.

“What?” I looked around.

“Do not be alarmed. My name is Procon Hobb, though my real name is impossible to convey to your species.”

Procon Hobb’s eyes were on each side of his head and he slowly turned so that one eye could face me directly.

“How are you talking in my head? Is that you? Are you a mutant?” I asked.

“I assure you it is safe,” my inner voice replied.

“What’s my butler doing here?” I demanded.

“I would like to hire him as my general manager,” he thought at me.

“He already has a job,” I countered.

“He would like to hire you as well,” Cliston answered.

“Hey, can you hear him?” I asked Cliston.

“I am speaking to both of you simultaneously,” Procon Hobb answered, still in my head.

“Does Cliston…” and I was going to say, “have a brain,” but that was stupid. Of course he did. And if a giant frog/turtle/monster could talk to me, why couldn’t he talk to Cliston?

“Hire me for what?” I asked, trying to regain my footing.

“It is a bit premature for that,” Hobb said. “I would mostly like to hire Cliston, but he stated he could not work without your permission.”

“Yeah! He works for me. We’re a team.” I was a bit hurt by this. Was Cliston trying to cut out on me after all this time? I’d lose half my clients. And I’d eat crappy meals again.

“No,” Cliston said, “I explained to Procon Hobb that I would not work without you.”

“So general manage what?” I asked.

“I own a professional Super Class glocken team.”

“Really? Who?”

“The Belvaille Glocken Team,” he said.

I stood there a moment.

“That’s their name? You can’t call them that! There’s maybe forty teams in this System and you’re saying yours is the only one. It’s a tradition that team names are meaningless. Like, something you heard in a dream or saw on the bathroom wall,” I said.

“It’s too late for that. He has already established them,” Cliston said.

“And what do you know about glocken? You’re a butler,” I pointed out.

“Actually, glocken is quite popular among Dredel Led, even though we do not play. I wrote a handbook, ‘4009 Guidelines to Efficient Glocken.’ Many of the rules were adopted for the Super Class glocken league.”

I knew I shouldn’t be annoyed that my butler was perpetually more talented than I was, but it did get tiresome.

“So what’s all this have to do with me? It seems like I’ve been dragged down here so you can steal my domestic servant.”

“My players keep going missing,” Hobb said.

“Pay them more,” I shot back. I was being rude, but I was not feeling gracious at this point, what with my butler being stolen along with my brain.

“I pay them exceedingly well. But it is not that they are leaving for other teams, they are vanishing. I’ve lost several of my star players and they haven’t been heard from anywhere.”

“They’re not on vacation?”

“They left their possessions, wealth, and even their families behind,” he said. “It is clear they are being taken by someone. I believe it is my competitors. Not just teams, but other nobles, who don’t wish to see me have a successful glocken project. Very few people would go to such trouble with no obvious gain.”

“What you’re talking about is a fulltime job and not really my gig. I’m a Factotum. I do negotiations. Hire more security.”

“I was instructed by the government that this qualifies as Factotum labor. I am required to hire an operative. I am losing a vast amount of money on this team.”

“I hate to break it to you, but you can’t just buy a winning franchise. There have been teams that have gone millennia without winning. First you need a coach—” I started.

“I have hired the services of Magda Strongarm,” he interrupted.

Whoa.

Magda Strongarm was the winningest coach in modern glocken history. She had taken five different Super Class teams to the Championship and won sixteen times total. She had to be really old at this point, but it was pretty damn impressive nonetheless.

“And a general manager. I guess you want Cliston.”

“Only with your approval, sir,” Cliston said.

“But what players do you have?” I asked.

“I’ve seen the current list, sir. I believe the team could be a strong contender,” Cliston said.

“Strong contender for what?”

“The Championship,” Hobb said.

“You’re crazy. Win the Championship on your first year? Why not set your sights a little higher and cure hangovers? Besides, what does this have to do with me? I’m not going to stand around stadiums looking for kidnappers.”

“No, and I don’t believe that is how it is happening. You would need to be closer to my employees than that,” Hobb said.

“You would be a player, sir.”

I gawked at them both. I hadn’t done glocken since I was a little kid.

“What makes you think I have any capability of playing glocken at the professional—the Super Class—level? I’d get murdered in the first five minutes.”

“Actually, sir, your physiology, temperament, skillset, and knowledge make you a perfect defensive Weight. You could shut down nearly any 7- or 8-lane that is currently in the game.”

“That’s ridiculous,” I said.

“If you are accepted, I am proposing a starting salary of thirteen million credits per week plus bonuses,” Hobb said.

I started looking around for a contract to sign before whatever hallucinogenic was in this mist wore off and he realized what a ludicrous deal he was giving me.

“Okay!” I bubbled.

“Actually, sir, I will be negotiating on your behalf if you don’t mind,” Cliston said, seeing my eagerness.

“I’ve handled more deals than you can possibly imagine. Besides, you’re the opposition. You would be the general manager.”

“I also wrote several manuals on sports agents, specifically geared toward glocken,” Cliston replied.

“Fine,” I said, “but I want to review the contract.”

“Actually, I am primarily interested in Cliston. I haven’t decided if you are worthy of my team, Hank,” Hobb made my inner voice say.

When he did that, it felt curiously like I was doubting myself.

Which I was.





TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 8




“Well this hardly seems sporting,” I said.

We were all on another floor that wasn’t so filled with vegetation. There was a large dirt ring, fenced off with chains. Inside stood me, and a thirty-foot-long lizard.

“Why don’t you put that thing on the team?” I asked Hobb, who was safely squatting well to the side. He had attendants spraying him with water and his two guards stood nearby.

“The Usk is a dumb beast native to my home world. If you can triumph over it, I will consider you acceptable as a member of my glocken team,” Hobb thought.

That lizard was going to eat me. It was huge. How did Hobb even get it onto Belvaille? Certainly someone noticed a dinosaur coming in at the port.

But thirteen million a week, I’d wrestle lava for that.

“So what do I do?” I asked.

Hobb made some slight motion and the chains were suddenly released from the Usk. It sprinted forward, turned, whacked me with its tail and sent me flying through the air.

I smacked against the wall, far outside of the pit, and realized thirteen million really wasn’t all that much money when you considered it.

The lizard lunged at me absurdly fast and ripped through the metal retaining fence. There had been maybe twelve poles holding that fence to the floor and they all bent simultaneously, until half wrenched completely out of the ground.

So how was I supposed to fight this thing? I was a little hazy on the rules.

The Usk reached me and opened its gigantic mouth. You could fly a spaceship in there! It had no discernable teeth, but its mouth was edged with bony protrusions.

I ducked and rolled to the side. I tried to get up and out of the way but, wham! I got hit with its tail again and went flying across the other side of the fighting pit—which was poorly named since we weren’t actually fighting in it.

I staggered to my feet and was feeling rather dizzy. The room was spinning and so was I.

But the good news was I saw the Usk limping and twitching its tail. Sure, that thing was probably a bunch heavier than me, but I was really solid. It would probably break its tail just about the same time it broke me.

Not sure if that would qualify as a victory.

The Usk charged again and I thought back to what Cliston had said. I would make a good defender in glocken. Specifically, a Weight.

The Usk opened its tremendous jaws again, and this time I put my hands against the roof of its mouth, and one foot on the bottom, stepping on its tongue.

It then tried to close its mouth and crush me like a stubborn morsel.

But I stepped in with my other foot and tried to position myself as best I could.

“Uh, sir?” I heard Cliston call.

I wiggled a bit, a bit more, and when I felt I had it, I crossed my arms and kicked my legs out.

I basically lay down inside the mouth of the Usk.

“I don’t wish to interfere, sir, but do you require assistance?”

Great time for Cliston to start doubting me.

The Usk was gulping, trying to swallow this junk food that had literally hopped into its mouth. I did my best to let myself be swallowed—up to a point. I tried to keep myself sideways and my chest as broad as possible so I wouldn’t get my head or neck crushed and I could still get air. But my legs were already down its throat.

This was actually my plan.

I was far too big for it to chew and there’s no way I’d ever fit down its gullet. So I was just sitting here waiting for it to suffocate as it mashed me over and over again with its extremely powerful maw.

After about a minute it realized this wasn’t working so well and it tried to spit me out, but now I was holding on and widening my legs to keep myself wedged solid.

It thrashed around as it began choking in earnest and I felt myself getting rammed against all manner of solid objects.

When it finally slowed and staggered to a halt, I called out from my damp cave.

“Did I win?”





TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 9




“You trying to cheat me, Cliston?” I asked.

“No. Your base salary is twelve million—” he started.

“What about thirteen?” I interrupted.

“I negotiated down in exchange for you not having to practice as much. I know you enjoy your free time and you will also be engaged in finding the missing players.”

“You negotiated with yourself?”

“Yes. But I did it fairly, I can assure you.”

“Where is the rest of my money?” I asked.

“As I was saying, twelve million, minus my 15% as your agent, leaves you with just over ten million and then I get 15% as your butler.”

“You’re double-dipping!”

“They are different tasks. Just like you collecting rent on your building and you working in your building as a Factotum.”

“Those aren’t anything alike. You’re the general manager, my agent, my butler. How do you know when you’re which?” I accused, wondering where my millions went.

“As a Dredel Led it is not difficult for me to compartmentalize my roles. I had your best interests in mind—except when I was operating as general manager.”

“So about 8.5 million a week?” I asked suspiciously.

“Of course, you’ve entered a new tax bracket and now qualify as an entertainer, which makes you subject to numerous other taxes.”

“I’m going to lose money on this, right? I’m going to go out there and get my face pounded and become a beggar. Why did I ever agree?” I asked.

“You will make substantially more than you do now, sir. If you can survive the whole season, you will do quite well financially.”

“Survive? Even you think I’m going to die. And you’re some glocken strategist.”

“I meant not go on injured reserve. I have every belief you will do extremely well as a glocken player. Besides, you still have to negotiate your side project with Procon Hobb.”

“You mean finding who is stealing his players?” I asked.

“Yes, sir.”

“Why weren’t you negotiating that at the same time?” I asked.

“Because you always say you like handling your own Factotum contracts and I’m not nearly as skilled in that arena as you are.”

“Hmm, I wonder if I can get back up to thirteen million,” I said. “I don’t even know what he wants. Some glocken players disappear and I’m supposed to find out where? They could be on the other side of the galaxy running a school for underprivileged snowflakes. Let me see my contract for glocken.”

Cliston went into the other room and returned with a stack of papers that could choke an Usk.

“What the hell, Cliston?”

I took the stack and began flipping through. It was like fifty accountants and lawyers had died on these pages in a grueling fight. At random, I saw there was an entry for parking on holidays.

“Was this you or him? Why do noble contracts have to be so complicated? It used to be you could get by with a few paragraphs and a handshake. Now it’s this mess.”

“You need to be sure all parties are adequately protected,” Cliston replied.

That’s what happened when a meticulous Dredel Led was handling both sides of a deal.

I just hoped I was cut out for Super Class glocken, the highest level of play in the galaxy.



Once I was officially a player and Cliston was general manager, Hobb was surprisingly friendly when it came to negotiate my Factotum services.

Being a player was my prime responsibility. In essence, I was just undercover security. There wouldn’t be a lot of investigating I could do while maintaining a somewhat active sports life. Though I hoped I would be a benchwarmer for much of the time.

I mean, I had to be. I wasn’t any good.

Hobb had a training facility not far from his home in Belvaille. It was a straight shot south of me across town, but traffic had increased a lot recently now that everyone and their butler had cars.

The building was twenty stories tall and took up almost a whole block. I learned that five other glocken teams and one girl’s ballet school used the building for their training camps.

My limo had to park in a lot and let me out.

The facility was security door after security door with me having to present my credentials every step. In fact, the whole training complex was basically one big military compound that happened to be filled with sports equipment.

You’d need an army to abduct anyone from here. Which led me to think the missing players had left of their own accord.



“I don’t want you. You’re too old. You’ve got bad knees, bad feet, bad back, scar tissue so thick they could build a suspension bridge out of it, you’re slow, you have no stamina, and by your own admission you haven’t played glocken since before you hit puberty. Which, it seems, was so long ago you were masturbating to hieroglyphics,” Magda Strongarm bellowed at me.

This was an inauspicious beginning to my glocken career.

“But,” she added, “I am required to take you because I don’t have control over my own players.” She said that as if it was not only insanity, but the gods themselves should be heaping vengeance upon whatever fool made that policy.

“Yeah,” I said, feeling browbeaten.

Magda was old and odd-looking even by Colmarian standards. She had a big head, thick glasses for her black pointy eyes, no neck, and a lipless, gigantic mouth. She had a slender upper body and spindly arms, but a massive waistline over stumpy legs that ended in feet that were three times the size of mine. When she moved, she shuffled and swayed and looked ready to fall over any minute. It was only through a vigorous rocking motion that she managed to stay upright.

“How much do you weigh?” she asked.

“I think about 1,900 pounds. Maybe 1,974,” I answered meekly. She made everyone meek. She was a little lardball old lady and these hulking glocken players whimpered in her presence.

I stepped on the industrial scale.

They had been poking and measuring me all day. They couldn’t scan me with medical devices because my body was too dense, but that didn’t stop them from shoving things where things shouldn’t be shoved and monitoring the results.

Magda read the scale.

“3,215 pounds,” Magda accused, as if it was my fault. “Are you as stupid as you are fat?”

“I’m bad with numbers,” I mumbled.

“I can’t fire you, but I can make you quit. I can make you despise it so much that you’ll change your whole vocabulary just to avoid using the letters that spell ‘glocken.’ Now go check with the doctor,” she said, wobbling off.

With my head downcast, I walked through the halls of the training facility. Hobb did have a nice place here. I guess it was nice. I never went to the gym, so those machines could be torture devices for all I knew.

It didn’t even smell bad.

There were illustrations of the team name, “Belvaille Glocken Team” all over the place. It was a simple red background with black letters. It might have been drawn by a child except the signs were too big. Hobb spent all this money on a team and building and coaches and players and couldn’t come up with a decent name or sign.

I got pointed down a few different halls and finally came to the doctor’s office.

“Hank,” Delovoa said casually.

Delovoa was just about my best friend, which made me sad every time I thought about it. He was a scientist and mutant and good guy to have on your side because he was a horrible guy to have even mildly against you.

At this point we were both the longest-living residents on the space station. I had survived so long because of my biology, which healed wounds and diseases, and could apparently slow old age. And because I had my body recreated from scratch by a mutant.

Delovoa lived this long because of his own technology.

He rode in a heavy-duty wheelchair. It tugged along a trailer that held a large aquarium. Inside the tanks were all his vital organs, including his three brains, floating in various-colored liquids. The whole setup was attached to his hollow chest cavity with numerous tubes.

At least he had covered up the gaping hole in his torso and gotten a metal sleeve for where all the hoses connected.

His head looked like a hairless, wrinkled, upside-down pear with three irregularly spaced eyeballs that could also blink and look independently. He had tubes and wires sticking out of his face, and the top of his head had been sawed off and replaced with a glass dome in which blood regularly spurted up and ran down the sides.

Delovoa looked quite gross. And he had done all of this to himself without assistance.

“What are you doing here?” I asked Delovoa, surprised.

“Cliston hired me as team doctor. He takes 15% of my salary. I got your ‘medication,’” he whispered.

Presumably he meant my Ontakian formula. It was Delovoa that perfected it.

It was a pretty smart move having Delovoa with us. If the team had to travel, I would either need to stock up on the formula or make it. And it wasn’t easy. Even Cliston had to get the base components from Delovoa before he cooked it into his wonderful meals.

Delovoa was also a good technical resource. About all I knew when it came to technology was on, off, and smash. Delovoa was still one of the main repair technicians of the Portals and he had literally centuries of experience making weapons and other gizmos. Unfortunately, he had a tendency to overlook the safety of anyone other than himself.

I could also use Delovoa’s help on my Factotum job of looking for the glocken-nappers.

“Man, Cliston must be making a killing as a sports agent,” I complained.

“No kidding,” Delovoa replied, as he mixed some chemicals together. “Cliston hired Ziggles and Garm for the team, too.”

“Ziggy?” Delovoa and I had disagreements about the name of his Po. I guess that was rude, but Po were a slave species, normally. Ziggy was Delovoa’s butler. It looked like a giant pile of tentacle arms and hands with no mouth or features of any kind.

Garm had a lot of features. She was the attractive former Adjunct Overwatch of Belvaille, a member of the ruthless Quadrad assassins, and my one-time lover. I was also her granddaughter’s gigolo for a short while, though I tended not to bring that up in conversations. Garm was far more crooked than I could ever be and was quite a dangerous combatant. She was also a mutant and didn’t need to sleep.

“Is Garm going to be a cheerleader or something?” I laughed.

“No, a player,” he said. “Want some?” he held up a cup of something foul to me and when I crinkled my nose, he shrugged and poured it down a squeaky hatch on his aquarium. The solution around one of his organs began to bubble.

I filled in Delovoa on the other job I had and how I might need his assistance. Delovoa told me that both Ziggy and Garm were players, taking up the 1- and 2-lanes. Garm would sub out on defense and someone else would take her place.

So Cliston had pulled my whole network together and helped staff the team at the same time—probably collecting 15% from everyone at least once. Knowing Cliston, in a year or two he would write a manual on how to be a Factotum and put me out of work.





TWO MONTHS AGO, CHAPTER 10




Once I left “Doctor” Delovoa and got inside the locker room, the first thing to greet me was some guy’s naked balls.

“Hi. I’m Candar, team captain. You’re Hank, right?” he asked.

I tried not to look at him, but he was an absurdly muscular man who stood taller and wider than me and had long blond hair. There had to be someone around who was oiling him up and making sure every hair was in place. He had crisp blue eyes and angular cheekbones and a dimple on his chin. He was practically a caricature.

“Yeah. Hank,” I said, looking at the ceiling.

“You’ll need to take your clothes off,” he said conversationally.

“What? Why?” I asked, alarmed at his possible motivation.

“Coach’s orders. She says it keeps us in shape by forcing body awareness.”

“I can’t even get to my locker first?” I asked.

Candar pointed at a sign and crossed his arms.

The sign read, “No clothes beyond this point.”

“This is your team now,” he said. “You have to bare all to them.” He said it with such conviction you almost believed him.

Still, this had to be unsanitary.

I started stripping down and I felt Candar’s disapproving gaze.

“How much do you weigh?” he asked.

“Like 1,900 pounds. Or 3,000. Or something,” I said.

“So you’re going to be an 8-lane defender?” he asked, the skepticism deep in his voice.

“I don’t know. They haven’t told me.”

“Well, Coach told me. We’re going to use you on defense as a Weight. That’s got to be the hardest position in the game,” he said severely.

“Hmm,” I replied. My butt was cold.

We walked through the locker room with me holding my clothes in front of me and Candar prancing around like he had nothing to be ashamed of.

And he didn’t.

Candar told me he was the first-round pick from Honor Class, which was one level lower than Super Class. He had led the entire league in token-pounds carried, points scored from running, token-pounds thrown, token-pounds killed, and nearly every other category.

He weighed about 500 pounds and carried the 100-pound token in the 5-lane.

From around a corner stepped a strange creature. He was short, squat, solid muscle, and also naked. He had only one, absurdly thick arm. He looked me over and seemed unimpressed.

“This is the new Weight?” he asked.

“Yes, this is Hank. Hank, this is Tobo,” Candar said. “Tobo is our main Twist.”

Twists were throwers.

“I hope you’re good.” He said it like he doubted it and then walked off.

We went down a side hall and had to stop because our path was blocked by a Gandrine. He took up the entire hallway and seemed to be just standing there looking at the wall.

“Grah! This is Hank! He’s going to be subbing for you on defense in 8-lane as you shift to 7,” Candar yelled.

Grah was about ten feet tall and I’d guess 15,000 pounds. He looked like he was a kind of glassy obsidian. He had lots of rough patches, but whole sections were almost polished. Gandrine were—visibly—sexless, slow, unbelievably strong, and…rocks.

We stood for a while waiting for a response from Grah, but he continued to face the wall. After a minute or so, Candar motioned for me to turn around and we went another way.

“I just noticed that everyone has pretty short names. Will be easy to remember,” I said. With 50,000 species colliding, people could, and did, often have names that were simply unpronounceable or even paragraphs long.

“Coach made us take nicknames. It helps the fans relate and makes them able to fit on merchandising. Fortunately, your name is already short.”

We walked a bit longer and Candar motioned.

“This is our 2-lane Puffer.”

And there she stood: Garm.

Her tight, rippled muscles. Her gorgeous face, cocky yet feminine. Her short-cropped black hair. Her lack of clothes.

She looked me up and down as we approached.

“Thad Elon’s Cancerous Mouth,” she exclaimed, “did you get even fatter?”

“It’s not fat,” I said.

Candar raised an eyebrow at me.

“Good. You two know each other. I need to go run some strategy with Coach. Your locker is three down on the left.”

He walked off, with his perfect posture and graceful stride.

Garm watched him go.

“Now he’s not fat, if you were confused on what I meant,” she said.

“Is Cliston getting 15% from you as well?” I asked, ignoring her.

“Yeah. And he said you’re going to need help on a job, though I have to work under the table. I can’t support you as a Quadrad while you’re wearing your Factotum hat.”

“How much are you getting paid to play glocken?”

“None of your business,” she replied.

“I could just make Cliston tell me. He’s my butler.”

“You don’t understand Dredel Led very well. Your butler doesn’t know. The general manager does. And he wouldn’t tell you,” she said.

“You’re getting paid enough to stop being a Quadrad for a season,” I said. “That has to be a lot.”

She shrugged and let her face go blank.

“You know glocken is a dangerous sport. They won’t let you carry a pistol or knives.”

“I know that I’ll be wearing body armor and trying to carry five pounds into the end zone. If anyone or anything gets too close, I can just drop the token. You, on the other hand, have to stop some of the biggest, strongest, meanest creatures in the galaxy. I’d say you should worry about yourself,” she replied.

“Is Malla also playing?” Garm’s granddaughter was also a Quadrad. It might get awkward having them around. Though I seemed to be the only one who was ever uncomfortable about the fact I had slept with both of them.

“No, she’s off fighting with her relatives about her dead husband’s estate. They’re trying to rob her. I never trusted that family. Bunch of lowlifes,” the professional assassin said.

I was about to answer when another woman walked over to us.

“Hello,” she said in a dusky voice.

She was a head taller than me and her everything was just…big. Her eyes were giant and a pinkish-red. They looked like they took up a quarter of her face. Her black hair was slicked back, which made her look angry. Her shoulders jutted up prominently and her biceps were like small melons. Her breasts were each about the size of Garm’s head. Her muscled abdomen contracted to an impossibly small circumference before ballooning again to her powerfully thick thighs.

It took a long time to process it all. My inner calculator was having difficulty with her dimensions. Her legs should snap that waist in half. And she should be hunched over from the weight of her perfect, yet overlarge, bosom. She must have tremendous lower back muscles.

“Hank,” I heard Garm say.

“What?” I asked, annoyed.

I had finally made it to the woman’s feet. Even her feet were large.

“Kitt asked you something,” she said.

“Who?”

“I’m Kitt,” the woman said, offering her hand.

“Oh,” I said hastily.

I took her hand and she shook it like someone who could run down the field carrying a 40-pound token. Because that’s exactly what she did.

“Going to shower off. I’ll see you around,” she said.

“What?” I asked as she walked away. Was that a pick-up? Was she inviting me to shower with her?

I looked to Garm, who was no help.

“You think she’s attractive?” Garm asked.

“No, Garm. I’m the only person in the galaxy who thinks she is terribly unsexy.”





PRESENT DAY, CHAPTER 2




Our first game was over and we had scraped together a win. No thanks to me.

One thing was clear. I was the worst player on our team by far.

I had made fun of the idea of Garm and Ziggy playing, but they were amazing. Ziggy especially. He was all arms and hands and it seemed he moved only slightly slower than the speed of light.

Coach had berated me for about 35 minutes for blocking my own teammates, allowing the opposing team to score, and for my overall stinkyness in general.

I headed to the locker room to try and get my broken body repaired.

Procon Hobb had this place stocked with the best medical, spiritual, and all other kinds of healing implements. You had high-tech electro-muscle reconstituters right next to so-called magic totems representing the Patron Spirit of Contact Sports.

My body was in bad shape. I don’t mean from the game—though it certainly was from the game—but it was bad overall. Even though my body healed itself, it had taken centuries of abuse. I also suspected it was as lazy as I was at the cellular level, so if it could just fuse some bones together or thicken ligaments to get the job done, that’s what it did.

So I healed, but not properly.

The team physicians submerged me in a tank that bombarded me with ultrasonic waves. It was part massage and part abuse. I was enduring it when a light shone in my face.

“Hank, what do you attribute today’s victory over the Moxinall Jacks to?” I heard a familiar voice ask.

I cracked open an eye and Rendrae was standing next to the tank with a camera pod on his head.

Rendrae was fat and green and old. Though he didn’t look very old. He was the source for news in Belvaille, and had been so for nearly as long as I had been around. He was an extraordinary journalist.

“Wha’?” I asked him.

“Hank,” Rendrae said, his voice slumping, “you need to punch it up. This is for the post-game show. I go on in fifteen minutes.”

“What are you doing here, Rendrae?”

“I’m the team’s announcer. I do color commentary and play-by-play. I’m Rendrae, your Force For Sports,” he said with gusto.

“You gave up The News?” I asked. That was the name of his extremely long-running tele program.

“No, don’t be silly. I’m just adding a sports section. Latest polls show that 538% more people read and watch sports than regular news. I’ll use this to fund my real reporting.”

“That’s sad.”

“No sadder than a Factotum playing glocken,” he fired back. “And from what I saw, not amazingly well.”

“What do you know about glocken? How’d you even get this job?”

“Cliston hired me.”

My butler was certainly making more money than I was.

“Well, what do you want?” I sulked.

“The Belvaille Glocken Team needs some branding help. I’m thinking of calling the bottom two defenders the ‘Band of Hands’ because you got Ziggles with however many hands he has, and Meggaar with his four arms subbing in for Garm.”

“Its name is Ziggy,” I said.

“Team roster says Ziggles but I’ll follow up on that. I’m also thinking of calling the top three defenders, including you, Grah, and Bley-ore the ‘Mound of Pounds’ because I think you’re the heaviest top three in all of Super Class.”

“Don’t say that. It sounds like we’re all fat,” I complained.

“It’s just a name, Hank,” he said. “What do you think of the Reskin Sleepers winning last month? Is it a new era? Now that the stilted controls that existed during the Colmarian Confederation have been swept away, is there a more no-holds-barred glocken?”

“I don’t know, but I made a bunch of money gambling on them,” I said.

“I can’t print that, Hank,” Rendrae said.

“Why? It’s not illegal.”

“The sports page can’t come out and talk explicitly about gambling. You have to hint at it. We’re not bookies. This has to be family friendly.”

“Oh. Well, then I don’t know. I think there are so many teams now that anything is possible.”

The light turned back on from his pod and he spoke in his reporter voice:

“Do you think being a Factotum and skilled martial combatant with centuries of experience has raised your level of glocken play, Hank?”

I thought about it.

“Maybe.”

The light turned off and Rendrae gave me a withering look.

“I wonder if I can get an interview with Candar.”





CHAPTER 3




The next day I decided to do something I was good at and try and investigate the missing players.

I figured I would start from the bottom. Ziggy had replaced the 1-lane that had gone missing. Looking at the man’s stats, Ziggy was a much better player, so if someone had indeed kidnapped him, they had done the team a favor.

The man’s name was Porj and he had an apartment in the east not far from the docks. It wasn’t the best place, but it was still on Belvaille, which made it luxury by default.

The building had three guards all armed with rifles trying to cordon me off from the elevator.

This struck me as very odd. Openly carrying weapons could, or at least should, bring down the wrath of the Central Authority. Anything that smacked of organized firepower was frowned upon. And the C.A. frowning was as casual as an axe to the forehead.

“You better put those toys away. You don’t have Licenses to Hurt. What are you going to do, blow bubbles out of them?” I said.

“We have Licenses,” one of the men said.

I rolled my eyes.

“Right. Look. I’m Hank, Factotum 00003. I do have a License to Hurt and I don’t mind using it.”

“We’re licensed under Factotum number 10337.”

“Univox Factotal?” I asked, surprised.

“That’s right.”

“What are Xandale’s men doing in the lobby of an apartment building? Are the door-to-door salesmen around here that bad?” I asked.

They stood quietly. Xandale had trained them never to talk, which made them extra annoying. I talked to anyone if it could ease a headache or help me get a job done. You had to talk in this business. If they told me what they were looking for, I might know or point them in the right direction. But as it was, we all just stood around looking stupid.

It was strange that Xandale’s men were here, but maybe Hobb had hired them too, or they were here on unrelated business.

“Fine. Whatever. I’m on an official Factotum assignment and you are blocking me. You either need to state your reasons or watch me take those guns from you. And trust me, I’m cranky already, if you make me exert myself I’m going to be rough with you,” I said.

“You’ll have to answer to the C.A. for attacking fellow Factotums,” one said, though there was just a hint of uncertainty in his voice.

“Did I mention I’m Factotum 00003? I am totally fine with the C.A. I have a lot of friends in their ranks,” I said, lying.

I stomped forward and they didn’t lower their guns, but they parted for me.

“What apartment are you visiting?” one of them called after me.

“Porj’s,” I said. “See how easy that was? Do you have any information on it?” I asked. Silence. “Fine.”



I guess technically this was a condominium, which was what rich people called their apartments.

Like the building I lived in was a “charming Colmarian Confederate.” Which is to say it hadn’t been rebuilt in 400 or so years.

The condo was spacious, tasteless, and extravagant. Inside were five women and six men apparently still living here in some form or other even though the owner, Porj, hadn’t been seen in several months.

“So…who are all of you?” I asked.

They tried to explain it a few times and the more they tried the less it made sense.

“There has to be some booze in a place like this?” I asked.

I was offered all manner of drugs but settled for an entire bottle of alcohol which they simply handed to me. I expect they thought I was the authorities come to throw them out. From the look of things, they had been partying non-stop since Porj went missing and I was like a blast of hateful sobriety.

The best I could make of it was some of the women, or all of them, were Porj’s former girlfriends and the men were his friends and/or sycophants who had now morphed into the boyfriends of the women.

“You play on the Belvaille Glocken Team?” one of the men asked.

“Yeah,” I said. I figured it was better to leave out I was a Factotum.

“Where is Porj? Is he coming back?” one of the women asked, though she seemed to be only asking because it was expected of her.

“I was hoping you guys could clue me in. When was the last time he was here?”

There were many dull, drugged glances exchanged among the group. I realized Porj could be standing in the kitchen and they wouldn’t know. They probably had no concept of time except by measuring the pounds of illicit substances they had gone through.

“Let me ask this another way,” I started. “Did he say he was leaving?”

“He went to practice,” one offered after a moment of contemplation.

“Good. Do you know when?” I asked.

“Couple weeks ago,” another said, and the group seemed to slowly agree on that.

Porj had not been to practice for two months. No one had checked his condo other than calling and knocking on the door.

This was his posse. Porj could have told them he was done with glocken and was becoming a priest and they wouldn’t care as long as he still provided the same lifestyle. So for them to not know his whereabouts, I felt was important.

“You guys mind if I look around?” I asked.

“Why?” one guy said, taking offense, as if he owned the place.

“So, um, Porj was a good athlete, right?” I asked.

“Yeah,” they all agreed vehemently.

“Do you think you could take him in a fight?” I asked the guy who objected.

“No way,” he laughed.

“Well, Porj is a 1-lane offense. I’m an 8-lane defense. I’m going to look around,” I said.

All their faces dropped and they got quiet.

“Can someone show me where his room is?” I asked.

Every single person jumped up to help. And I realized: these guys were professional hangers-on and I was a professional glocken player. They were looking for a new meal ticket now that Porj had taken a powder.

Porj didn’t have just one bedroom, the whole condo was a bit amorphous about who slept where. He had trophies everywhere and news articles and there must have been a thousand pictures of himself. I took some tele copies of them in case I had to show them to people.

Like any good 1-lane, he was tiny. A wiry little creature about four feet tall with blue skin.

As I looked around one of the bedrooms, the whole group was standing behind me in the hall.

I leaned on the dresser to get a closer look at one of the photos and I tripped and smashed the furniture to bits.

“I know you! You’re in the Mound of Pounds,” one of the men exclaimed.

I didn’t want to agree to that terrible name, but if it helped, sure.

“Yeah, that’s me,” I said, getting to my feet.

The other people were growing excited. I was a real professional. They must have had their doubts. I didn’t exactly look like any glocken player they were used to.

“He plays above the Gandrine!” The man continued, and it was like the floodgates opened.

“Porj was always afraid of being kidnapped. He had three bodyguards. Haven’t seen them in a while,” one said.

“And a driver,” another added.

“Is his car still here?” I asked.

“Yeah, and the driver came by a few times, but no one is paying him so he left.”

“Are any of you people the bodyguards?” I asked.

“No, they were big guys. The team provided them. Porj was tough, but he was really small. The bodyguards kept crowds away.”

I had to check about that. I wondered why I didn’t have any bodyguards. If Cliston hired them, maybe he felt I didn’t need them. If Magda Strongarm hired them, she probably didn’t mind me getting kidnapped.

“Porj has a wall safe over here. We haven’t been able to get it open,” one woman said.

“I saw the game, you played great,” a man said, trying to suck up.

“Show me the safe,” I said.

It was behind a drape. A drape that didn’t cover a window. Just a drape against the wall, hiding a safe. Why not nail a towel on top of it with the words, “no safe here,” stenciled on it?

I wasn’t a safe expert, but I could tell it was pretty sturdy and I wouldn’t be able to break into it.

But that didn’t matter.

I kicked at the wall around the safe. After about ten minutes, I had mangled the building enough that I could pull the safe completely out.

“Okay,” I said, hefting the metal rectangle onto my shoulder.

The entourage was staring in awe.

“I need to do some glocken stuff but I might come back. If you remember anything about Porj that was unusual in the last couple months, give me a call.”

They all practically broke their wrists getting out their teles so they could take down my number.





CHAPTER 4




I had just walked into the lobby with the safe on my shoulder when I heard a voice behind me.

“So you’re a burglar now, too?”

I turned and saw Xandale. His rent-a-Factotums weren’t with him. They were presumably off protecting another lobby.

“What are you doing here?” I said to the red-skinned, big-toothed man.

“I could ask you the same thing. I could, but I wouldn’t. What another Factotum does is none of my business. Unless I make it my business,” he replied.

“Ooh, ominous,” I mocked.

“I heard you’re playing glocken. That’s…pretty interesting. Hard getting Factotum jobs?”

“Uh, it’s called advertising, smart guy,” I said.

“In case a noble wants to hire a second-rate sportsman as well as a second-rate Factotum?” he joked.

“In case they want to hire an 8-lane pro in Super Class. I don’t know how many billions of people see me play glocken, but it’s more than you can hand out business cards to,” I said.

His massive smile diminished somewhat.

“Maybe. Maybe you got a good scam going. But glocken is a dangerous sport and, whatever you say, you’re not a professional. You’re not even a professional Factotum. You’ve been squeaking by for a while now and don’t pretend you haven’t. Despite our differences, I want to offer you a job.”

“Me work for you? You must be kidding. We don’t even like each other. You’re wasting my time.”

I started to walk out.

“I thought you said it was always worthwhile to listen to a deal,” he said.

Bastard. He probably wrote down all the stuff I said when he was learning to be a Factotum. I didn’t actually remember the garbage I spouted. I just spouted it.

“Fine. Go on,” I sighed.

“You could take it easy. Live in your same place. Work from home. Hell, you wouldn’t even have to work. Call it a paid retirement.”

This set off all kinds of warnings.

“Doesn’t that sound great for me? What do you get out of it, though?” I asked.

“Getting rid of competitors is always valuable. Frankly, I’m tired of seeing you every time a Factotum assignment comes up. There’s already too many of us and they keep registering more. Besides, if you worked for me we could reorganize the business under your number,” he said.

He wanted my 00003. I always used that as a selling point, but it was actually irrelevant. So what, I was the first Factotum. Didn’t mean I was any good. But nobles loved that kind of thing. Hiring the very first Factotum sounded more prestigious than hiring the thirty-first.

I didn’t want to snub Xandale, mostly because it was fun to get his hopes up. But retirement just wasn’t for me.

“I’ll think it over, Xandale,” I said, leaving.



I took the safe back to my place and was met by my butler who was also somehow my boss’s boss.

“Good evening, sir. Would you care for something to eat?” Cliston asked.

I was going to put the safe down on a sturdy table, but the table was gone. I looked around and everything was gone. The entire room was stripped.

“What happened?” I asked.

“You are a professional glocken player now, sir. I feel that requires a slightly different decoration pattern. And, as a professional glocken player, your old possessions increased in value, so I sold them.”

“How much did I make?” I asked.

“I have it under control, sir.”

“Dammit Cliston, I’m not a child, I want to know how much money I have,” I said.

“As you recall, sir, our agreement allows for me to handle home furnishings and sales thereof,” he replied.

“I know that, but I still want a figure.”

I was being stubborn just because I was tired of all the back dealings he was doing—even if they were in my best interest.

“Minus what we paid originally for the items, depreciation, taxes, entertainment costs, and auction fees, it was 7,538,225 credits.”

Wow. I put the safe down on the bare metal floor.

“Good. Okay. Let’s get some food in me. And who is in charge of bodyguards?” I asked.

“Bodyguards for what, sir?”

“For the players. Do I get a bodyguard?”

“You will need to ask your coach, I suspect. Or general manager. I am merely your butler, sir.”

This was going to get annoying.

I walked into my bedroom to change clothes and stopped short.

“Cliston, where are all my clothes?” I asked.

“I sold them in the auction, sir.”

“Who would want my clothes? They can’t fit normal people.”

“As I said, you are a professional glocken player now. You need a new wardrobe. And your celebrity status helped sell your old things. They were quite popular, though I wonder if I sold them too early. If you do better in the season they will only appreciate in value.”

It was weird that some guy out there had my underwear hanging on his wall. I hope Cliston washed them first.

“So what am I supposed to wear?” I asked.

“We’ll do a fitting tomorrow,” Cliston said. “Dinner will be ready in thirty-four minutes.”



In my armory, I found some tools that let me bust open the safe.

I knew Cliston would raise a stink, so I put it out on the sidewalk, and shot it with a rocket launcher—a small one—then hurried back inside.

Inside were a lot of drugs. I mean a lot.

There were also more pictures of Porj. In the last three hours I think I had seen more photographs of Porj than I had of anyone in my entire life. It was now impossible for me to forget him.

There were also some contracts.

I took the contracts into the dining room and read through them as I ate.

“Sir, need I remind you that a gentleman Factotum does not read at the table? I am happy to read for you, however.”

“I’m not a Factotum right now. I’m a glocken player,” I said.

Cliston was silent for a moment and I thought he was going to smack me.

But he walked away into the kitchen. Hey, I wonder if these dual roles might buy me a little freedom from Cliston’s iron grip of civility.

Here were Porj’s Belvaille Glocken Team contracts. He had two, one was a renewal. He made almost twenty-three million a week! I wondered if Cliston was cheating me.

But Porj had been a starting 1-lane Puffer offense, one of the most important positions on the team. I was just a defensive Weight.

There were some receipts for this and that, but he also had a few short letters that were interesting. They weren’t signed and had no letterhead, but the intention was clear:

Another team had been interested in signing Porj.

There was the usual flattery and hints of rewards and an invitation to come visit them.

What struck me was this was on paper. This could have easily been sent via tele. Not much was done on paper anymore. It was too expensive. But a lot of contracts still used them.

Also, things you didn’t want traced.

I had no idea who wrote this, sent this, or when.

It could have been sent by the god/myth/demon founder of the Colmarian Confederation, Thad Elon at the dawn of time for all I knew.

But it also gave me an idea on at least finding out if Porj was still alive.





CHAPTER 5




“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” Garm said for the tenth time.

“Stop lying, you already told me you could,” I said.

“Where are your clothes?” Garm asked.

I was standing in my underwear in my empty living room.

“Cliston sold them and he’s taking his time making me a new wardrobe.”

“I swear, if I knew you were going to be parading around like that, I wouldn’t have come over.”

“For the last two weeks you’ve seen me completely nude at practice,” I said.

“Yeah, but we’re glocken players there.”

“How is it everyone can be these multiple personalities? I’m still Hank at the gym or here.”

“So…flabby and nude?”

“I’m not flabby. Or nude. I’d wrap a sheet around myself but I don’t even have sheets. You’re trying to change the subject. You told me the Quadrad could intercept tele transmissions. I need to see if the missing player, Porj, has sent anything in the last few months.”

“I don’t know if I told you that or not, but I did say that if I help you I’m not working as Quadrad. The Quadrad have hated you ever since you attacked their headquarters.”

“Man, you guys sure hold a grudge,” I said.

“People hire us for combat operations and assassinations and covert defenses. You walked in, threw a bunch of grenades around, blasted our members, then walked out! That’s really bad for our reputation.”

“It’s not like I told anyone,” I said. Then I thought about that and realized I had told a ton of people. Pretty much anyone, any chance I got.

“Ask Delovoa. I’m sure he has some devices that can snoop teles,” she said.

“I did ask him. He said they upgraded all the satellites for the new teles and he can’t touch them. Besides, his job isn’t espionage, yours is.”

She sighed.

“The Librarians have that information.”

“Those hermits at the edge of the System?” I asked.

“They aren’t hermits. Not exactly. The civil war destroyed a lot of information. A lot of history. They are creating a library of all our data in case it happens again.”

“What’s that have to do with Porj’s tele?” I asked.

“They store all tele transmissions.”

“No way! Those guys? I thought they just kept books and stuff.”

“They keep everything we would need to understand our society if we have another civil war,” she said.

“They can’t have access to all that.”

“The Arch Minister authorized them,” she said.

“How do you know all this?”

“The Quadrad have traded information with them in the past. To fill gaps in their archives.”

“Would they give me the tele records you think?” I asked.

“I’m sure they would. I can’t imagine the stuff you have rattling around in your ancient brain. But. You need to be really careful what you tell them,” she said.

“Why, are they going to arrest me? They’re librarians.”

“No, but they might trade whatever you tell them to someone else. And, for instance, the Quadrad already hate you.”

“So, what, you guys are going to triple-hate me?” I asked.

“You know what they can do to you, Hank.”

“What is it with all the subtle threats lately? Okay, I’ll go visit them I guess.”

“That will take you a whole day to get out there, you’ll miss two practices,” Garm said.

“Tell Coach I have ass cancer.”

“You’re going to get fined.”

“Nah. Me and the G.M. are tight. He cooks my breakfast.”



Cliston had laid out clothes for me, expecting I was going to be a glocken player en route to practice. He had already left to go general manage, so he wasn’t dressing me.

There had to be some mistake with this wardrobe.

There were five shirts, all of different sizes and collars and metallic sheens; about 100 pounds of gaudy jewelry, including medallions so heavy they could be used as wrecking balls, a set of rings that completely incapacitated my fingers; an enormous fur coat that was too long and dragged on the ground like I was a fairy princess on her way to a wedding; an eyepatch—a no-kidding eyepatch—covered with jewels; a pimp cane; spiky boots that looked impossible to walk in; a belt buckle so thick it stretched from my groin to my upper abdomen; and an enormous hat with towering feather plumes that made me so top heavy on my silly boots I needed my cane just to stand up straight.

It was the exact opposite of everything Cliston swore by and encouraged me to wear. Had he gotten a software virus?

I wasn’t sure I could walk outside without tripping into the street and getting hit by a car. They’d have to quarantine the entire block for dangerous levels of tackiness.

I stared at myself in my multiple wall screens, which could display me from any and all angles. I had to lift my eyepatch to take it all in.

You know, there might be something to this. People who could pull off outrageous, flamboyant styles garnered a kind of respect. Anyone could wear black synth clothes and chains and pretend they were a street thug. But if someone could walk around dressed up like a giant, retarded songbird, he was either a fashion designer or someone you should think twice about messing with, because he clearly didn’t give a crap.



I drove to Belvaille’s port and had my usual cabbie pick me up.

I liked Zzzho. We had been through a few tough scraps together and he could keep his mouth shut.

Well, maybe not his mouth. He didn’t have a mouth. Zzzho was a Keilvin Kamigan, a sentient, gaseous lifeform. He looked like red haze punctuated with lots of little lightning bolts.

It was that electricity that allowed him to drive a cab, talk, or do anything. He powered devices using his own physiology.

Zzzho was a great cabbie. He didn’t eat anything other than ambient radiation, he didn’t sleep, or take bathroom breaks. He was a gas cloud. You couldn’t ask for a better pilot for boring deep-space travels.

He spoke through a set of speakers he also plugged himself into.

I had to take off my big hat to enter his taxi. In fact, I was having a rather hard time of getting in at all what with the fur coat and boots and such.

After some minutes I plopped in the back and strapped myself in.

“Hey, Zzzho. I’m going to see the Librarians,” I said.

“The Historians?”

“Whatever. Those hermit guys way out there.”

“That’s a long trip. Do you have food and water? Once we pass the last ship it’s maybe ten more hours,” he buzzed. “Though I might be able to speed up once we’re clear of the Central Authority vessels.”

“Yeah, I got some snacks,” I said.

“Are they expecting you? I’ve never driven a fare to them. Would be an awful shame to turn around.”

“I teled and they didn’t say no.”

“Okay,” he answered.

We disembarked and stayed quiet as the little taxi navigated through the numerous ships constantly going to and from Belvaille space station. Once the incessant instructions from the C.A. subsided, Zzzho started his usual small talk.

“You playing glocken? I heard it, but couldn’t believe it.”

“Yeah. I’m supposed to be at practice right now,” I said.

“Do you have any inside leads for your next game? I could even lay a bet on your behalf. Or is that illegal?”

“Nothing’s illegal, but they’d kill me all the same. I don’t even know who we’re playing.”

“Reskin Sleepers,” he said.

“Really? Wow.”

“Their coach, Irune, is crazy. I heard he makes them practice twenty-four hours a day,” Zzzho said.

“How is that possible?”

“In their sleep. They hook up devices and stuff. Did you see their last game? They dominated. They went from the worst that ever was to top of the pile.”

“Hmm,” I said, concerned.

“You should really be at practice if you’re playing them. You seen their 8-lane? The guy you have to block?”

Of course I knew of their 8-lane. I had seen him play once. But I purposely put it out of my head.

“Hey, just drop it, okay? I need to focus on other things,” I said.

“Sure, but we got plenty of time.”

“I know, but I don’t want to fill it with glocken. What do you think of my clothes?” I asked.

“I wasn’t going to say anything.”

“Why? Do I look stupid? I think it’s supposed to make me seem dangerous. Or eccentric.”

“You slammed a dreadnaught into Belvaille, killing tens of thousands of people. And they gave you a medal for it. I know you’re dangerous.”

“It didn’t exactly happen like that.”

“‘Exactly.’ Nice. But what do I know about clothes? You all look like globs of mud to me.”



The Belvaille System had a lot of ships in it.

Traffic was coordinated by the Central Authority Navy. The Central Authority ships were the Colmarian Confederation vessels that had survived the civil war.

It wasn’t a tremendous Navy, but it was the biggest in the galaxy by far. The warships that remained, had been coerced into selling to Belvaille. The Central Authority had zipped over ten cruisers or whatever, and were like, “Hi, we’d like to buy your ship. Do you want to sell it, or would you prefer we destroy it?”

So the Arch Minister was in control of the galaxy’s last Navy. There were handfuls of warships in other areas, but not many. Except the Boranjame, and they didn’t really count.

Once we got into deep space, Zzzho could go a lot faster. Our taxi didn’t exactly have priority routing compared to some mega-freighter hauling a trillion credits worth of ore.

We talked about everything except glocken. I learned the Keilvin Kamigans bartered for technology by selling gas, which they could manipulate, and by trading some of their own bodies.

They were the most efficient known fuel cells in the galaxy. What a weird concept though. “I’ll give you my arm for a computer.”

“It was Thad Elon who first started trading with us,” Zzzho said.

“No way! You guys know Thad Elon too? He created the Colmarian Confederation—supposedly.”

“I know. We didn’t have any technology before he came. That’s what the legends say.”

“So you guys are indebted to a Colmarian?” I asked.

“Well, he has a mixed reputation. Some Keilvin Kamigans feel we were a lot better off before. In like some idyllic paradise. We didn’t even have concepts of greed because there was nothing to be greedy about.”

“Wow. Thad Elon has the same bag with us. It depends on whether you think the Colmarian Confederation was a force for good or the most backwards bureaucracy of biological waste in history.”

“What do you think?” he asked.

“I don’t think it was the most backwards. Though I can’t name any worse.”



Space was not a place to go if you were antisocial.

You’d think it would be, but you were constantly surrounded by people. Constantly in breathing distance and getting jostled around. Some people even go crazy from it.

I heard of ship captains giving a kind of personality test to passengers and crew to make sure they could cope with the years of crammed and cramped existence.

However, there were a few—very few—people who managed to turn space into the ultimate hermitage. With a lot of work you could make a few-person spaceship that could survive indefinitely.

It wasn’t easy, space was harsh and you couldn’t exactly go foraging for nuts and water.

But Belvaille System had a couple such ships, situated millions of miles away like they were distant asteroids. There was generally no reason to bother them, if they wanted to be alone, they probably had a reason and it wasn’t worth your time.

However, I needed to talk to the Historians. Fortunately, they were willing to listen.

There were ten of them and they weren’t old or tired or anything like I thought. They said they were identical brothers; tall, purple, thin. It was hard to tell because they wore giant metal helmets with concave glass lenses that covered their entire faces. It made their features all mash together. I can’t imagine what vision problem it corrected, but they seemed to get around fine. On top of the helmets were some antennas and small satellite dishes. They were spry and had muffled voices because of their helmets.

“Hi,” I said.

“Hello,” one answered, smiling a tiny, concave smile.

“I’m wondering if I can access the tele records of someone.”

“Of course. Would you like something to drink first? It must have been a long flight.”

“Sure,” I said, never refusing food.

One of them brought out a glass and there must have been an ounce of liquid in it. I stared at it a moment, wondering what it could be.

“I’m sorry, but we don’t have many luxuries here. It’s simply water.”

I probably had sneezed out more water than this on the cab ride over.

“So. The guy I need tele records from is named Porj. He lives in the east—” I began.

One of the brothers held up a hand.

“We need some information from you first.”

“Oh, sure. I know all kinds of stuff. Like back when Belvaille used to be a criminal haven. More of a criminal haven,” I said, winding up for a good story.

“We already have ample records of that. The reporter Rendrae had quite a comprehensive newspaper and we have every issue of The News.”

Damn him.

“We need to know how the old Governor, Vorrin-Gortail, died. And Belvaille went from a democracy to being governed by Arch Minister Maris-To.” He stated it like it was a minor request.

The brothers all had the same gentle expressions, distorted by their foolish helmets.

So these Historians, in some way, worked for the Arch Minister. But the official word on how Belvaille changed had always been hazy, a “best not to ask” kind of thing.

In actuality, Maris-To had murdered the previous Governor with my unknowing assistance. But if I told the truth, I might as well put on my swimming trunks and dive out the airlock, because my life wouldn’t be worth that little cup of water.

“Is there anything else you need to know?” I asked.

“This is all we are interested in for now.”

I paused to think.

“And you can track who sent and received teles? And I can see records of that?” I tried to confirm.

“You can listen to the actual conversations if you like. Fifteen minutes.”

“Thirty minutes,” a brother amended.

“Thirty. If you supply us with what we seek,” he confirmed.

I could do a whole lot with thirty minutes of tele conversations!

“And no one will know about it?” I asked.

“History is of no value if it’s secret. But it will be confidential if that’s what you mean.”

Well, crap. If I tell, it will be obvious I told. There was no one else there except Maris-To, and he wasn’t talking. Still…

“Okay,” I said.

They jumped up and got their cameras ready to record me.

“The night that Vorrin-Gortail died, how did you arrive at his mansion?” one asked.

“By car,” I shrugged.

“Limousine?”

“Well, sure,” I said.

“Did you drive?”

“I don’t know how to drive,” I stated.

“Were you alone in the car?”

“No, of course not. The driver.”

“Was Maris-To with you?” one asked.

“Uh, no.”

“We have records from the limo driver, from the front security register at the mansion, and from the cameras inside, that you accompanied Maris-To that night,” one said, smiling.

This was a setup.

They knew what happened. They knew everything. The only thing they didn’t know is what transpired when that door closed on me, the Governor, and Maris-To.

When we stepped inside, the Governor was powerful and Belvaille a democracy. When I left, the Governor was dead, I went on a shooting spree to try and escape, and Belvaille became a monarchy a few days later.

The galaxy changed during that private dinner and only two people could say what happened.

“If you withhold information or try and fabricate anything, our deal is cancelled,” one said.

I took a deep breath.

“I killed the Governor,” I lied.

There was no way I was going to finger Maris-To, it would be the death of me. The Historians didn’t show any change of emotion. Though it was hard to tell through their fishbowls.

“And how did you do that?”

“With…a spoon. I stabbed him with a spoon,” I said.

One was about to talk, but I interrupted.

“I had to poison him first. On my hands,” I said, twiddling my ring-encrusted fingers. “The poison didn’t affect me. I’m a mutant. But it immobilized him. I was one of the only people who could murder him and get away.”

“Why did you do this?” one asked.

I could say a lot of things, some of them true. He opposed immigration. He was too powerful. He wasn’t satisfied with the work I was doing for him. But all those reasons would lead me down paths that required a lot of explaining and I would have to keep making up lies and they would eventually catch me. So I decided to make it simple.

“I didn’t like him,” I said.

“You didn’t like him?” a brother asked skeptically.

“Nope. I wanted to be Governor. I was at one point, you know,” I said.

“Yes, we are aware. But that was some time ago, immediately after the civil war. And you helped institute the elections that replaced you.”

“Yeah, well, I thought people would vote for me. And I was always scared with Vorrin-Gortail around. That was a feeling I wasn’t used to. He was a level-eight mutant. The second most powerful mutant I’ve ever seen. I’m really difficult to hurt, I heal rapidly, but Vorrin-Gortail could stop time. My own mutations were completely powerless against that,” I said.

“But there was no reason to fear him.”

“He constantly killed people who got in his way,” I said.

“How do you know that?”

“Everyone knew. That fear was how he maintained control. I wouldn’t be able to be Governor with him there. He could just stop time and kill me. I would never be truly safe with someone like him around. He had also threatened me a number of times. I figured it would eventually come down to him or me,” I explained.

“What proof do you have?” someone asked. All the brothers were now standing around me.

“Do you think I kept the spoon or something?” I asked. “What possible proof can I provide? He’s dead. I’m not. You know I was there and I had to escape his mansion after his death. I’m a criminal. Yet here I am, a citizen of Belvaille with my own heraldry, my own block, and my own building,” I said.

“It could be argued that you were given those things in return for your silence. If someone else murdered Governor Vorrin-Gortail.”

“You could argue anything,” I said. “But I was there and I know what I did.”

“But Maris-To is now Governor, not you. He gained far more than you did.”

“I realized after he was dead that I didn’t want to be Governor. Because there will always be someone like me willing to try and step into your shoes. And with Vorrin-Gortail gone, I felt comfortable again. It was good enough. Let the politicians worry about being assassinated, they’re welcome to it,” I said.

There was a long silence, but they reluctantly agreed to my story and allowed me access to the tele banks.



The terminal was a little screen among a massive set of computers. I had to hunch down and squint to make out the tele details as I scrolled through.

Porj had not made any tele calls in two months. At least not anywhere within Portal range of these collection satellites. Which was far indeed.

I felt Porj was either dead or had totally changed identities, ditching his tele. A guy like that couldn’t go five minutes without talking or using his tele to watch news of himself.

He had gotten thousands of incoming calls and messages, but had not responded to any of them.

His last message was a short text.



Taking the job! Let me know if you coming. They pay 3 times more. Call me.



The message was sent to a person named Yorsh. He was a professional glocken player.

Yorsh was a 2-line offense who had also played for the Belvaille Glocken Team.

And he had also been missing for two months.





CHAPTER 6




Everyone used teles. Even people in other parts of the galaxy used Belvaille’s custom teles.

I decided to use my leftover minutes granted by the Historians to spy on the Reskin Sleepers’ coach, Irune, and see what he had sent. Hopefully it would be plays or strategies that I could present to Magda Strongarm and she would finally cut me some slack.

I dialed through the files and found Irune’s record.

And it was blank.

Day after day after day of nothing.

I wasn’t sure I had it right.

How could someone not use his tele? How did he get around? Or schedule games? Or order food?

I finally found one call but it was nonsense. I thought it had been garbled or something and I reloaded it, but it stayed the same. Clearly it was some code.

I tracked the recipient and it was a person on Floloria, the Rettosian space station in Belvaille System. I kept looking and finally found one incoming message. It read:



00003 might cause trouble. Should I handle it?



Irune replied with a simple: No.



I tried to check who the message was sent from, but it was labeled “unidentified.”

“Hey, what’s this mean?” I asked the Historians. “Shouldn’t it have a name and location?”

One of the brothers looked over my shoulder. They had been standing a discreet distance away.

“We have seen anonymous tele transmissions before, though very rarely.”

“So I can’t see who this is?” I asked.

“No, I’m afraid not.”

I stared at it. Those were the only messages within maybe five months. I don’t know if I was being proud or paranoid, but 00003 could easily be a reference to my Factotum number.

I looked up Yorsh, the missing player that Porj had contacted before he vanished. Yorsh had no outgoing teles for two months as well. He had not even responded to Porj’s last text.

I then checked Procon Hobb’s tele records.

That wasn’t technically proper behavior for a Factotum, but I was also his glocken employee, so there. Besides, there was something about him I didn’t like—other than him hijacking my inner voice and using it to communicate with me.

Hobb had almost no tele messages either. Not what you’d expect for a big shot like him. But I guess he didn’t need a tele if he could just think at people.

I was mostly looking for any references to myself, but if there were any, I didn’t see them. I didn’t even see any references to the Belvaille Glocken Team. It was just one of his many, many business ventures and probably a minor one at that.

I tapped my fingers on my chin thinking about whether I should look up Garm.

Her most recent message said: Get out of my file, Hank!

The message had been sent today. To me!

I looked at my own tele to see if I had received it, but I hadn’t. She had somehow edited her logs knowing I would be poking around. What a crafty minx.

Seizing the opportunity and realizing I was running low on minutes, I dialed up Xandale’s file.

He had lots of curt messages to his Factotums that I couldn’t understand without reading ten messages of context. I skimmed through and it seemed like every damn job we had both gone out for, he had secured. And holy hell did he charge a lot! I should raise my rates.

I also saw he was pestering some nobles about getting himself heraldry. Figures. He was still just a commoner. Some doors would always be closed to him. That was probably another reason he resented me. I had heraldry and he didn’t.

I went back further in time and saw an incoming message: Hank is at Orange33. He’s not going to leave.



Xandale replied: Stall, I need to talk to him.



That was it. Orange33 must be Porj’s building. That wasn’t particularly interesting and nothing I didn’t know.

The brothers informed me my time was up and turned off the terminal. They offered me another bountiful drink of a few ounces of water before I headed back to my taxi.

The two people who had gone missing had been in contact with each other and maybe had been about to jump ship to another team. That put a distinctly different spin on things.

Could Hobb have killed them to prevent them joining the competition?

I was getting ready to leave when a Historian approached me. Probably to offer me another huge helping of water.

“Hank, we know you didn’t tell us the truth,” the man said.

“Really?” I asked, unconcerned. I already got what I came for and didn’t see much further reason to talk.

“We have been monitoring you for a long time. We even have your biography and whole personality profile,” he continued.

“Well isn’t that creepy?” I said. Zzzho was taking his time picking me up. Why hadn’t he stayed docked? Was he out joyriding?

“It is of paramount importance we know the truth or it will be lost forever. Ten thousand years from now don't you want the facts to remain and not some political fabrication?”

“Not really, I'll be long dead and beyond caring,” I said.

“Perhaps I can sweeten the deal,” the brother said, and he reached up and took off his fishbowl helmet.

The brother was a sister. Her hair was a bit messy from the helmet, but she was definitely attractive.

“Uh, no thanks. I don’t really go for the brainy types. I can’t provide much in the way of stimulating conversation and I hate feeling dumber than I already am. I’m more into dangerous women that I regret sleeping with,” I said. I figured, no point in being coy if they have my whole dossier.

“I wasn’t trying to seduce you,” the Historian clarified. “You knew where to look in the tele records, but you didn’t know what to look for.”

“That’s insightful,” I said.

“We are unbiased observers, but this is extremely important and we are willing to bend our rules.”

“If what?” I asked.

“You tell us the truth about what happened. We know you didn’t want to be Governor. When you made yourself Interim Governor you created elections almost immediately. And we have numerous tele records of you lamenting your title and responsibilities. It is your complete lack of ambition and the fact that so many pivotal events have happened around you that makes us follow your movements so closely,” she said rather insultingly.

I was just tired. And clearly they knew me and my weaknesses because they sent a little doe-eyed Historian to try and coerce me.

“And you’ve got something to offer in return?” I asked.

“We do.”

Zzzho teled that he was docked and ready to depart. He said he had been dumping some trash that other passengers had left over the years. He just opened the doors and let it float away.

“Okay, Maris-To killed Vorrin-Gortail. I poisoned him. Maris-To spooned him. I took the heat and escaped. In exchange for my silence, Maris-To gave me heraldry and let me and my friends go,” I said. I hadn’t uttered those words in a long, long time. Now that I heard them with my own ears, I suddenly appreciated the gravity of what I had just stated. “But don’t tell anyone,” I added lamely.

“We will keep it secret for as long as we can,” she said. “Here.”

She handed me a piece of paper, which I took with great trepidation. What dread information could be worth what I just spilled?

It was a totally confusing string of characters. There were letters, numbers, different colors, arrows, subscripts, superscripts. It made no sense whatsoever. It wasn’t a map, it wasn’t instructions, it didn’t spell or write anything that I could understand.

“What’s this crap?” I asked. Annoyed I just traded my life for vomit out of a computer.

“It is extremely valuable to your aims, I can assure you,” she said.

“My ‘aims,’ what the hell does that mean? What are my aims? To become the deadest dead guy in the galaxy? What am I supposed to do with this?” I yelled.

“It is very important,” she said, though she was losing her unbiased Historian calm and backing away at my very obvious rage.

If they knew so much about me, they should know I didn’t like being screwed over in deals. I examined the page again. I held it up to the light, turning it this way and that, but it still made no sense.

“Thank you for your visit,” the Historian said, and she quickly left the hall and closed the door behind her.

Damn.



When I got back to the cab, Zzzho was in a hurry.

“Hey, we need to go,” he said.

“What’s the rush?” I asked.

“I need to get certified for a new transport, a long-haul shuttle,” he replied.

“You going to branch out?” I asked, strapping myself in.

“Yeah. Your general manager just teled me. I’m going to be your team’s bus driver.”

I don’t know why I was mad at Cliston for hiring basically everyone I knew and taking a percentage of their pay. I guess I should be happy that he was so enterprising.

It just made me feel kind of lame that my butler made more money than I did and was only my butler for maybe a quarter of the day and the rest of the time he was my boss.

On the cab ride back, I received a tele from Cliston that I had been fined 50,000 credits for missing practice. Even though he knew I was working on my other job, of which he also got 15%.

Then he sent me another tele as my agent saying he had negotiated the fine down to 35,000.

Could Dredel Led suffer from schizophrenia?





CHAPTER 7




“This is Rendrae, your Force For Sports, reporting from the first ever match-up between the Belvaille Glocken Team and the Reskin Sleepers. We’re in Capital 3 System on planet Capital 3 in the Capital 4 stadium of the city of Capital 2. The Colmarian Confederation sure had some insightful civic planners. With me is my color commentator, and Dredel Led compatriot, Oxobox. There is currently a lull in the action because the Belvaille Glocken Team has used one of their rest breaks. So, Oxobox, the score is 148 in favor of the Reskin Sleepers. What would you say is going on here?”

“There is no easy way to put this, Rendrae: the Belvaille Glocken Team is not the same caliber as the Reskin Sleepers. The Belvaille Glocken Team can reliably score one or three points with their 1 and 3-lane, respectively, but the Reskin Sleepers are converting seven, eleven, and even sixteen using their upper lanes. It’s a total mismatch that keeps the Sleepers ratcheting up points. I heard the strategists in Dredel Led territory have given the Reskin Sleepers an 85% chance of sweeping the entire season,” Oxobox said in his robotic voice.

“Really? We’re only a handful of games in. Anything can happen.”

“The statistics speak for themselves.”

“Oxobox, glocken is very popular among your people, the Dredel Led, am I correct?”

“Oh, yes. It is followed almost religiously. We view it as a perfect representation of biological life and their struggles. It’s fascinating. One of the reasons why hostilities ended between the old Colmarian Confederation and the Dredel Led was because the Confederation threatened to cut off all glocken transmissions.”

“You all maintain this interest even though the Dredel Led are prohibited from playing?”

“We understand why we are excluded. We could maximize every single position and make it clockwork. Besides, we do not wish to play. Unlike you, we don’t heal after a particularly brutal tackle. We can’t ice our ankles or take pain killers. But the Belvaille Glocken Team has a Dredel Led general manager, the first ever. I see that as a sign of the future.”

“But Cliston hasn’t been too successful today. Is it coaching or players or what?” Rendrae asked.

“Irune clearly has chosen a superior team and has drilled and trained them to near-perfection. We are witnessing some of the shortcomings of biologicals today. Faster, stronger, bigger creatures can defeat their smaller, weaker counterparts. I believe the referees should call this game before anyone gets seriously injured. Though the fans may call it by losing interest.”

“It’s already been, let’s see, four hours and twelve minutes. Our latest audience numbers indicate that between the first and fourth hour, there was only a 2.3% drop in viewership. Which means this game could go on for days—assuming the Belvaille Glocken Team can hold out that long,” Rendrae said.

“I do not believe they can. They have been out-run, out-hurled, out-defended, in every lane except maybe 1 and 2. The Mound of Pounds, despite their sheer girth, have been unable to stop the top three Reskin Sleeper lanes,” Oxobox stated.

“Right. And Belvaille can’t win a game scoring one and two points but giving up sixteen and twenty-two.”



We listened to the tele in the locker room while team doctors and armor repairmen worked feverishly to put us back together.

My knee guards had been torn off, my chest pads were so butchered they had to be removed with a crowbar, and I was more exhausted than I had ever been in my life.

I couldn’t feel my face. I couldn’t even close my mouth as blood and saliva oozed down on the ground while my head hung limply.

Magda Strongarm was yelling at us as usual but I was just numb.

The 8-lane offense for the Reskin Sleepers was someone I had no business playing cards with, let alone trying to fight.

He looked like a…festering giant and his name was Shoz-Magnador-Bethal. The Reskin Sleepers apparently didn’t care that their players had convoluted names.

His skin was all bubbled and deformed. Like he had some super-cancer plague infesting every inch of him. He was “only” about nine feet tall and 5,000 pounds—but he could somehow throw that 4,000-pound token ten feet.

Which is what he would do.

At the start of the play he would pick up the token, spin around and throw it. Then he would run forward, beat me into the turf, pick up the token, and do it again, while I tried to bite his ankles.

I couldn’t tackle him while he was spinning with an enormous token. I took a glancing shot from it once and that was enough to make me never go near it again.

The only reason he hadn’t scored an infinity of points was because I was getting help. Grah could smush this guy, just like he could smush any guy, but he was too slow. And he had to deal with their 7-lane, who was almost as bad as the guy I had.

“You,” Magda said, pointing at me. “You lousy stink. Don’t you know what a Weight is supposed to do? This is why you don’t skip practice. Just sit on that token. That’s it! Don’t try and engage him, you can’t win, obviously. But he can’t pick up both of you. Do you understand?”

I was too tired to even nod my head so she took that as a “no.”

“Look. He’s going to throw the token. Let him! Let the token fly past you, run up to it, link your arms in the straps, and contest it. Lie down on top of it and make him pry your fat ass off,” she said. “That’s what a Weight does.”

“Should I start deep on the line? So he doesn’t hit me?” I slurred.

Magda slapped me.

“Stupid. If you start far away he doesn’t have to throw it. He’ll just walk up carrying it. Have you even seen a glocken game before?”

Coach went off to scream at someone else and I skulked away to be alone with Delovoa.

“Hey, man. Do you have anything to help me out here?” I whispered.

“Why are you whispering? I’ve injected so many drugs into this team that I think a cup of their urine could get the entire city high. I got something for you, but it’s not much.”

He snapped his bony fingers and an assistant came by with a big tub of glop. Delovoa shooed him away and then put on rubber gloves and a mask and started smearing the substance on my skin.

“Is it like amphetamines?” I asked.

“Why do you always guess stuff you know nothing about? No, it’s not amphetamines or hallucinogens or artificial sweeteners. It’s a paste of your formula. Your Ontakian body is trying to shut down and heal. It needs food. But you can’t go out on the field with a feed bag strapped to your face. As you sweat, this will be absorbed by your body. It’s not a lot, but it will help you keep going and repair yourself,” he said.

“Delovoa, don’t tell anyone about this formula. The last thing I need is for someone to find out I’m an Ontakian.”

“I make all kinds of drugs and treatments for other players. Blood thinners, muscle builders, granite lubricant, breast enlargers.”

“Wait, what? Who gets that?” I asked.

“I can’t say, professional discretion. The point is, everyone on this team is doping. You probably least of all.”

“Isn’t that against the rules?”

“There are rules?” Delovoa asked.

“Why are you wearing a mask?” I asked suspiciously.

“Because your formula is poisonous to anyone else. Not only that, but this is like…eighty million calories equivalent or something. If I ingested this, I’d almost certainly have a heart attack before I could even cough it up.”



We were in the sixth-hour stretch and I was lined up on defense. I had two hands planted on the ground as I faced Shoz-Magnador-Bethal. It looked like I was ready to spring forward, but in actuality I was poised like this because it was as close to lying down as I could get.

The lights flashed and I got ready for that token to come sailing. I was about seven feet away and hoped he wouldn’t hit me with it.

But as soon as the play started, he dropped the token and ran behind the line of scrimmage toward the lower lanes.

My training taught me I was supposed to go contest that token. Just hold the handles for five seconds and it would be dead. But something told me that Irune didn’t instruct their heaviest player to go running for no reason.

“Hank!” I heard Candar yell.

Shoz-Magnador-Bethal had been handed the 5-lane token, which was practically weightless to him. Candar tried to stop him and got backhanded by that rancid fist.

Out of the fifty thousand people screaming, I heard Magda Strongarm cussing at me. It was like her voice travelled on a different frequency.

I ran across the lanes on a diagonal path. Grah almost stepped on me as he got hit in the chest by their 7-lane.

I passed Bley-ore, the horn-headed blocker. He was locked in a struggle on 6-lane. That wasn’t his strong suit. His specialty was running at high speed and hitting people with his neckless head. But he was still part of the Mound of Pounds and could hold his own in any scrum.

Shoz-Magnador-Bethal was just ahead of me and he saw me coming. He put out his left hand which prevented me from getting a shot at his torso. I could try and grab his hand, but if I missed, he’d have a wide open field.

I knew this was going to be painful, but I ducked under his arm and threw myself in between his legs like a saboteur.

His rear leg jammed into me, then jammed into his front leg and for a brief moment we stopped. Then I was flipped into the air and Shoz-Magnador-Bethal slammed face first into the ground. The token went rolling away a short distance.

I landed on top of the Reskin player and spread myself across him. The referees might be able to call this a penalty, but I could say, quite correctly, that I was tremendously hurt.

Looking up, I hoped to see one of my teammates contest and kill the token, but their 6-lane ran by, having dropped his own token, scooped it up, and ran it into the end zone.

We threw everything we had at them and they still scored 10 points total, their 3-lane having also scored.

When the play was over, all the Reskin Sleepers were immediately on their feet and ready to continue. The Belvaille Glocken Team were slow coming around or had to be hauled away.

The viewership had increased in the last hour so there was no chance of them calling the game due to lack of interest. Magda Strongarm wanted to concede, but the Reskin Sleepers’ coach didn’t respond. The referees finally ended the game due to lack of competition.

The result was 264 for the Reskin Sleepers.

It was the highest score ever for Super Class glocken.





CHAPTER 8




We were back on Belvaille and I was on injured reserve.

I’m not entirely sure why. I had at least several bones that weren’t broken.

Actually, I was quite fine for hobbling around and getting stuff done. But that was a far cry from playing Super Class glocken. Still, my situation meant I was getting only a quarter of my usual salary.

I asked my sports agent if he could talk to the general manager and get me a raise, and in the meantime, cook me some food.

I told the rehabilitation people that I could heal myself, but they told me that if I didn’t go to therapy I wouldn’t even get my quarter pay. I’d get nothing.

The first machine they put me on was supposed to reknit my torn muscles. It was like a giant rolling pin with millions of little needles going over my weary body.

They strapped me down so I couldn’t move and all those needles snapped off against my thick skin.

Then they shipped me to another area of rehabilitation where for the next four hours they tried to remove the needles that were lodged in me.

Delovoa came over as I was laid up in bed.

“Why don’t you tell them to stop? This isn’t going to help me,” I said.

“I told her. But Coach wants it done anyway.”

“She really hates me,” I sulked.

“Yeah. She said that too,” Delovoa replied.

“What did she say specifically?” I asked.

“That she hates you.”

“Those were her exact words?”

“I don’t know exactly. Maybe she said she mega hates you or she massively hates you. But ‘hate’ and ‘you’ were definitely in there,” Delovoa said. “You can’t blame her too much. You kept letting that 8-lane walk over everyone. When he wasn’t scoring, he put half the people here on injured reserve.”

“I didn’t ‘let’ him do anything! How was I going to stop him?” I asked.

“How should I know? I’m just a doctor, not a glocken coach.”

“How long am I going to be here?” I asked.

“Until Magda gets tired of torturing you, I suspect.”

“She’s trying to get rid of me,” I said.

“Is that so bad? I suppose there are worse glocken players. Like cripples and pregnant women, but they aren’t in Super Class. What are you trying to prove, anyway?”

“If I get fired, I’ll lose this job and the Factotum job and I’ll go back to being Hank. That means I’ll want my butler back. That means you’ll lose the general manager who hired you. Do you think Magda Strongarm will keep you on without Cliston?”

“Oh,” Delovoa said, understanding. “I’ll write you a note and say you’re too sick for rehabilitation.”



I was walking, naked, through the training facility, because that was required, when I saw Kitt working out on some exercise machine.

She was also naked. And one leg was going this way, and one was going that way, and her arms were stretched and she was grunting.

I stopped and stared.

“I know, right?” someone said.

It was Meggaar. He subbed in for Garm on 2-lane when we were defense.

He was the perfect 2-lane. He had four long arms, two on each side, was short, and strong. He couldn’t run very fast, but he prevented anyone from even leaving the line of scrimmage. He and Ziggy were the Band of Hands, as Rendrae called them.

“What?” I asked, startled.

“It’s okay, we’re all friends here. Kitt’s almost three feet taller than me or I’d ask her out. She’s also twice as heavy as I am,” he said.

“She doesn’t look it.”

“Hey,” she said, suddenly standing next to us. She smacked me in my bare ass.

“Ow! I just had a hundred needles taken out of there,” I complained. It was hard to not look at her chest. Or her muscles. Or her nudity. She was a good-looking woman. A head taller than me.

I realized I was not listening to the conversation again.

“If you got faster, Hank, you could be offense as well as defense. You’d make five times as much as you do now,” she said.

“Hmm,” I said. She was wearing a thin gold chain around her waist. Just a gold chain. It slung over her hips and dipped under her navel and had little…figurines on them. There were twelve that I could see. One was a star. A circle. An oval. Some kind of animal. A—

“Well?” she said.

“Huh?”

“Do you want to have sex?” she repeated. I had not been listening, being distracted by her body.

Had she just said that? Did she see me standing here ogling her and was calling me out?

I actually looked around to see if it was a joke. Like there was a bunch of people standing behind me, laughing.

But it was just the two of us. Meggaar had left and I hadn’t noticed.

Kitt was all glistening with sweat from her workout.

I was all red and lacerated and bruised from glocken and failed therapy.

This gal was out of my league. Certainly in glocken, but also in everything else. It was a bad feeling and one I wasn’t used to. She was a 4-lane Super Class offense and defense and did it with style.

I couldn’t even sit on a token.

“I, uh, don’t know if that would be appropriate. I don’t think we should have relationships with teammates,” I fumbled.

“I didn’t say relationship,” she shrugged. “There are benches in the cooldown room. We could knock one out there.”

“Maybe later,” I said, thoroughly confused.

I hastened away like a little girl who saw a rat and it had pulled a knife on her.

I put on my clothes and was outside of the locker room in maybe five seconds flat.

It hit me a few minutes later. What an idiot I was. Kitt was the kind of woman you dreamt about. She was a woman you bragged about at the old folk’s home when you were senile and wore a diaper.

What was I thinking?

I grabbed a bottle of water from one of the many kiosks along the way.

There was a random guy dressed head-to-foot in thick clothes and wore a breathing mask. Not uncommon given all the species in the galaxy.

He saw me and said something.

“You’re going to kill yourself,” he said.

“Probably,” I answered, and I thought he was talking about glocken or therapy or whatever.

He said something else, but I didn’t pay much attention. He was like a janitor or just some guy walking around. I was still remembering Kitt.

I was in the limo home when I thought back to what the man had said. What was it? He said I was going to kill myself. And then he said, “That’s poison to you,” indicating the bottle.

But it was just a bottle of water.

However, it was slightly toxic to me. But only someone who knew I was an Ontakian and not a mutant would know that.





CHAPTER 9




Had Kitt really wanted to sex my bod? It’s not like I hadn’t had women flirt before. Or even be quite aggressive.

I’d been alive for a long time. But even in my youth I could never be called handsome. Maybe, “ruggedly not-hideous.” If a woman bought me a drink it was probably because she was trying to drug me and steal my wallet.

But what was the big deal? Yeah, Kitt was in better shape than I was. And she had hundreds of fans waiting outside our training compound to try and catch a glimpse of her.

I read that she had done a charity auction, donating a pair of unwashed bras and panties and it had raised something like 4 million credits. Cliston sold my entire wardrobe but it had only gotten like 100 grand—which was a lot less than it cost.

She also made a bunch more money than I did.

Maybe that’s why she was intimidating. Was she intimidating?

I had dated Garm. And her granddaughter. And they were Quadrad assassins. I wondered who would win in a fight, Garm or Kitt?

Why was it I went for such tough women? Not that I had gone for Kitt. The carpet had burn marks from me running out of there so fast.

She was big. Long. It would be hard to keep track of a gal like that. Lying in bed you’d be like, “what was that?” and it would just be her arm lounging around, bumping into your foot—or the ceiling. I suppose you could put little flags on different parts of her anatomy so you could see where everything was.

No, that was unkind. She was damn sexy and I was trying to explain away why she had turned me into a teenage coward.

Fine. Next time she asked me, I’d say yes. But she wouldn’t ask me again. Not after my response. I’d have to ask her.

Could I do that? Just go, “Hey. Fornicate?” That wouldn’t work. Women could get away with that. I couldn’t. She’d reach down and punch me in my unmentionables.

I hoped I hadn’t missed out on my one shot.



Cliston had redecorated my house again.

When I came home, everything, every item, was covered in a dark, swirling metallic sheen. It was mesmerizing, but also jarring.

Beyond that, it was fear-inducing, because I knew what it was.

“That’s delfiblinium!” I exclaimed.

“Yes, sir,” Cliston answered.

“Are you crazy, that stuff is explosive! They use it to push planets around. I once threatened a Boranjame world-ship with it.”

“Sir, it requires a certain density to reach critical mass and very particular conditions. This is a brand new technique. It is only a fraction of a micrometer thick. Even if you scraped it all off somehow, it would be insufficient to cause much damage.”

“‘Much’ damage? How much is that when it can blow up a whole planet?” I asked.

“I think you may be exaggerating, sir.”

“Get rid of it. Those swirling colors are making me seasick.”

“We would take a substantial loss if we sold it now. You are on injured reserve. If we wait several months we would collect at least twenty million more when we auction it.”

“Okay,” I said quickly. “Though I don’t know who wants to buy a sofa that’s explosive.”



I decided to hit up the Belvaille Gent Club.

It used to be called the Belvaille Gentleman’s Club. Then the Belvaille Athletic Gentleman’s Club. Then the Belvaille Gentleman’s Club again.

Then someone stole the “man’s” off the sign and it was the Gentle Club. Then either the last two letters fell off or someone took them. Anyway, it was the Gent Club now.

It was the longest-running club in the city and catered to the darker sides of Belvaille.

As a Factotum, I already came perilously close to the Law side of Law and Order and some people frowned on me being in the club. But I had been coming here since its founding.

“Not allowed,” Gample said.

Gample was the doorman at the Gent Club. He was descended from a long line which included Pample, and Dample, and an ample assortment of other “–amples.”

“What do you mean, not allowed?” I asked, raising my eye-patch so he could see I was angry and not just nearsighted when I squinted at him.

“Gent Club has a policy on members,” he said.

“I got a lifetime membership!” I replied.

“Krample gave you that. He’s dead.”

“It’s not his lifetime, it’s mine,” I said.

“You live too long,” Gample argued, crossing his arms.

I didn’t feel like I was being properly intimidating with my two-foot, feathery hat, so I tried to take it off, but my giant lace cuffs got caught in the jewelry draped across my chest and I had to slow down and extricate myself.

I had wanted to throw down my hat in rage. Or slap him with it, which would have probably given him a concussion, but now I just looked foolish.

“I’ll vouch for him,” a voice said.

Podiver Vance, along with a number of other people, had been watching the confrontation.

Vance used to own one of the best store chains in all of Belvaille, Vintage Vance Vagaries. But his flagship store had been destroyed—by me. Well, it was by the Central Authority, but they were shooting at me. He had never recovered from that. Now he ran his business straight from the Gent Club.

Podiver Vance was an extremely tall and thin man. He was about nine foot and his arms were so long he could touch the floor with his hands while standing perfectly straight. He wore silk clothes that were tailored to fit him, but because of his massive dimensions, everything still hung loose so he could move around freely. I kind of thought he looked like a creepy spider. I mean, if you thought spiders were creepy. If you thought spiders were sexy then I suppose he looked like a sexy spider.

“Vouch for me? Since when did I need vouching?” I asked, irritated.

“You’re a professional glocken player. I’m sure you got some upscale club to go to,” Gample sneered.

“Just be my guest, Hank. You can get angry later,” Vance said.

I stopped trying to throw my hat and put my eyepatch back down with as much dignity as possible.

“Visitor’s pass,” Gample said, as I was about to walk by.

He handed me a big necklace with a yellow circle on it, letting everyone know I didn’t belong. Whatever, I wasn’t going to wear it. Let them try and throw me out.

Vance wrapped his spindly arms around me and I wasn’t sure if he was trying to hug me or straighten the front of my clothes from behind.

I was used to mixed reactions in the Gent Club over the years. This time was no different. A number of people seemed impressed that a pro glocken player was here and I got some well wishes. Others were impressed that the first Factotum was here. And all the rest disliked me.

The Gent Club was ten stories of dirty dealings and back rooms. A lot of the gangs that were off-station had some presence in the club or met here to conclude contracts. Factotums came and went. Nobles were strictly prohibited.

Deals got done here. No violence was allowed.

Vance had a corner to himself, which showed he had some influence. Still, I felt bad about him being reduced to a few tables in a smelly building.

We sat down behind some of his guards and drinks were placed before us.

“Hey, I want to apologize again for your store getting destroyed,” I said.

“You never apologized once. What do you mean ‘again’?”

“Oh. Well, sorry.”

“Not your fault.” I could see him thinking about that because it was my fault. I had stolen something he wanted to protect and it had escalated. “Anyway, I want to run a job offer by you,” he said.

“I’m busy,” I answered.

“You’re on injured reserve. I saw the beating you took. I figure you got a week at least. It should be easy.”

“What’s the job?” I asked.

“I have a client willing to pay big bucks for the…skin of Procon Hobb.”

“What? You know he’s my boss, right?”

“You don’t have to kill him. Hobb’s species sloughs off their skin now and then.”

“And I’m supposed to just ask him for it? That will go over well. Why would anyone want that?” I asked.

“I suppose you know, but Hobb has a telepathic ability.”

“Yeah, freaky as hell,” I said.

“Only like one in a billion of his species can do that. He’s a major religious icon among his people.”

“Oh, I thought he was just a noble.”

“Nobles on Belvaille are usually way more important in their home Systems.”

“So you’re selling to one of his people?”

“Have to protect my client’s identity, but they are religious devotees, yes,” Vance answered.

“What are they going to do, make a stuffed animal out of his skin? That’s kind of gross.”

“How should I know? And why do you care?”

“I’m a Factotum and he’s my client. I can’t work against him,” I said.

“Says who? Is that in some Factotum handbook that doesn’t exist? From what I’ve seen, you guys do whatever you want. I heard they just throw the skin away. Or burn it. The pay is forty million.”

Wow. So many big contracts. He was right, I didn’t have any restrictions, but if I started working directly against clients who were paying me, I’d quickly run out of clients.

“I’ll think about it,” I said.

“That’s all I ask,” Vance said sweetly. “And if you did want to repay me for destroying my store, this would make us square.”

Vance was a good negotiator. I had forgotten that.

“Ugh. I’ll think about it, I promise.”

We shook hands and I got up to go get something more to drink.



I had a keg of beer that I was sipping when some hoodlums in bad suits walked up to me.

One of them mumbled something so incoherent I don’t think there were any vowels in the sentence.

“I have no idea what you just said,” I replied.

“He said our boss would like a word with you,” the other man stated.

“My ribs hurt, my knees hurt, my feet are sore, and I just sat down. If you want me to get up, it will cost…20,000 credits,” I said flippantly.

The mumbler relayed this on his tele as I took another swig or six of beer. I was half-curious and eyed them casually.

“Mmrmmhm,” the man replied. But the cadence of it sounded like, “Okay.”

“You got 20,000 credits on you?” I asked suspiciously.

“We don’t, but our boss does,” the intelligible one said.

“I want some cash now. Empty your pockets.” The men exchanged unsure glances. “Your boss will reimburse you.”

They turned out their pockets onto the table and I sorted through the money.

“Eight credits?” I asked, surprised. I picked up a little digital coin. “I didn’t even know they made these anymore.”

“It’s lucky. I dropped it a few years ago and it rolled three whole blocks through traffic in a straight line,” he said.

I chuckled, flipping the coin in my hand. Criminals could be superstitious.

Of course, glocken players could be superstitious too. I could so use a lucky charm or three. I put the coin in my pocket.

“Does your boss pay you all in beans or something? Now I don’t even believe he has the money.”

“Our boss is Ulteem.”

“Oh. Well, carry my keg,” I said.

Ulteem was up three flights of stairs, which were a pain to climb. The elevators in the Belvaille Gent Club were dicey at the best of times and I didn’t feel like crashing down to the basement.

As a Lord, Ulteem shouldn’t be allowed in the club. But he was a gambling Lord. So it was questionable.

He was situated in the middle of the room with some cheap partitions around him. Despite the vast amount of money that came in and out of the Gent Club, they could never be bothered to spruce the place up a bit. This floor had two big potted plants that died years ago.

“Hank,” Ulteem said.

Ulteem’s fake head was different than when I had seen him before. It was purple and wore a turban and had fangs and a malevolent expression.

The thugs put down my keg and one of them whispered to Ulteem.

“Aww, you took his lucky coin?” he asked.

“You owe me twenty grand for this meeting,” I said.

“Sure.” He pressed a few buttons on his tele and a bookkeeper came out and handed me the cash. It looked like the right amount but I wasn’t going to count it. I stashed the wad in my frilly coat.

“So what do you want?” I asked.

“Leave us,” he said, and all his people walked away.

That struck me as odd. It’s not as if I was going to eat Ulteem or anything, but someone like him had a lot of enemies. I would think he would be cautious, even in the Gent Club.

“You play glocken now I see,” he started.

“Yeah. But not very well.”

“I like you guys. A real home team.”

“Belvaille has like a hundred teams,” I said.

“But they’re all lousy and most aren’t Super Class. Just nobles flashing some cash and they lose interest in a week. You have good odds on you.”

“On me?” I asked, surprised.

“Not you, specifically. Your team.”

“That’s nice to know,” I said, waiting for the pitch.

“Good enough odds that if you could throw a game, I could make it worth your while,” he said.

Those were perilous words and his frightening purple head didn’t make them any less so. I looked around instinctively.

“If anyone even dreamed I was contemplating throwing a game, they would kill me,” I whispered, leaning in close.

“There’s no governing body of glocken,” Ulteem said.

“It doesn’t matter. There’s fans. They’re worse. A governing body would just fine me. Or suspend me. How many billion people watch glocken?” I asked.

“There are spectators across every species of the galaxy. Next door in Capital 3 System alone there are nearly a trillion people,” Ulteem said.

“I don’t know about that, but you’re not making it any more attractive.”

“Put it this way, that’s a lot of people gambling. If you could guarantee a loss, within a ten-point spread, I could give you 500 million credits.”

I was about to shout at him to shut up but I just blinked.

“What?”

I think he smiled. But he had no head. Wherever his mouth was, it smiled.

“That’s right,” he confirmed.

I couldn’t comprehend that kind of money. I had been dealing with a lot of cash lately. Absurd amounts. But actual hundreds of millions? Sure. He could easily afford that, if it meant a guaranteed game. People gambled away whole planets. Which was, again, the reason why I would never touch anything this big.

“No. I’d have to use all that money to hire an army and go hide somewhere. Someone would get me eventually. Besides, I simply don’t have much say in the score of any particular game. I’m just a defender and most times my lane isn’t doing much.”

“I suspect you’d have to get more players involved, but you’d have enough money to do that,” Ulteem said.

“Thanks for the offer. But I categorically refuse. It’s not worth it at any cost.”

“Ah, well. You can’t blame me for trying. Keep the twenty grand,” he said generously, as if he had been thinking about taking it back.





CHAPTER 10




Magda Strongarm asked how long I expected to be sick.

Through my sports agent, I replied as long as I was scheduled to be given painful and useless rehab exercises.

She agreed to drop them so I could return to normal practice and slowly get back in shape. Or as close to shape as I could get.

Dangling around naked in the locker room, I tried to casually find Kitt and hoped she would still be receptive to a little one-on-one training. I was thinking I might use that as a pick-up line.

The first person I saw was Neddy. Out of all the people here, he looked least like his fake name.

Neddy was a Qwintine, a thin, insect-like biped that was twitchy and moved in short bursts. He was a real powerhouse player. He only weighed about 250 pounds, which wasn’t a whole lot in Super Class, but he had that exoskeleton backed by further padding—you couldn’t hurt him. And he was an insect: incredibly strong and fast for his size. Neddy played both offensive and defensive 3-lane. He was probably the second most frequent scorer next to Ziggy.

And the bastard, like Grah, didn’t have to exercise at all. Lifting weights or sprinting wouldn’t make him better or worse or anything. This was his natural state. He had a few downsides though. He sucked at any plays that were complex, for instance. He was a runner and he ran. He’d run over, under, around, through, but ask him to do anything more complicated than that and he’d get confused and frustrated. So lane three was its own little world.

Also, Qwintine had very short lifespans compared to most advanced species in the galaxy. He would likely only be able to play for a few years and then would have to quit. Maybe a decade after that and he’d die.

Neddy began screeching. It was really off-putting, while I was naked, to see a 6-foot insect, complete with pincers, flexing in front of me.

But Neddy was a good guy. He wanted me to try and help him understand one of the defensive plays.

“Shouldn’t you work with the coaches?” I asked.

“You show. You work with Qwintine great leaders before. We know you,” Neddy said.

I had met some Qwintine many decades ago. I don’t think there was much in the way of conversation.

“Sure,” I said, though I looked around one last time for Kitt.

After a few hours I think Neddy got it. He kept jumping up and trying to act everything out. It was tiring just watching him.

I got dressed and headed out to the fifth floor to practice. It was a half-field and the other players were there running routines.

Magda yelled at me for being late, and when I tried to explain why, she yelled at me again that it wasn’t my job to half-ass train Neddy, who made four times more than I did, and was ten times more useful.

It did sound silly when you put it that way.

Because I was still too hurt to do any heavy contact, they had me practice twisting. Theoretically, I should be able to throw massive tokens. It was just a matter of using my weight, momentum, holding on, and letting go. But I wasn’t technically all that strong.

I was like a bulldozer. Bulldozers don’t throw stuff. They use their weight and torque to push. That’s what I could do.

Besides, I was clumsy and couldn’t rotate my feet fast enough. We finally settled on the 4-lane token, which was 40 pounds.

I could throw it great distances, once the throwing coach got me to spin without tripping. But it was completely random where the token landed when I let go.

Other people were screaming and diving for cover as this token came flying at them.

They finally put me in a big netted cage so I could practice without killing anyone.

It seemed pretty clear that I wasn’t going to be a great Twist, or even a mediocre one.

“So why am I doing it?” I asked.

“Magda told me to,” the throwing coach shrugged.

After a while of me not getting any better and actually getting worse, we switched to 100 pounds. This was the 5-lane token, Candar’s spot. It was hard to believe he ran with this even though he weighed only 500 pounds.

It felt a little better but not much. It was still going random directions and I would still fall down about half of my attempts.

After ten or so throws and me rubbing my sore shoulders, they brought out the 6-lane token. This was 500 pounds.

“Just try it,” the throwing coach said, taking shelter outside the cage. “Lean back as you turn and keep your feet moving, tip, tap, heel, toe,” he called, moving farther away.

I spun once, twice, thrice, and let go. And it hit dead center where I aimed!

“Do it again,” he called.

I did it and wasn’t quite as accurate, but it wasn’t bad. The weight increase actually helped a lot because it countered my body weight. I couldn’t throw the lighter tokens because I simply couldn’t move that fast. But with the heavier token I could swivel my feet and lean back.

Almost no one threw 6-lane tokens or higher. That freak in the Reskin Sleepers threw the 8-lane, but he was the only one, and he used it more as a weapon than a scoring tactic.

But I felt I could throw this token maybe twenty-five or thirty feet.

Magda came over and I finally felt I had something to be proud of.

“And who is going to pick it up?” she sneered. “Grah is too slow to chase it. Tobo is a Twist himself, and hardly fast. Candar can’t run with 500 pounds. It would take your slow ass sixty seconds to reach it after you threw it and it would be dead by the time you got there. You couldn’t have a more worthless skill if you tried,” she shouted.

“So what do I practice?” I asked, feeling there was no pleasing her.

“Keep doing that,” she said, and bobbled off.



In the locker room I was beat.

All kinds of weird muscles I never used were strained and hurting.

Naked, glistening Candar approached.

“Hank,” he said.

“Yeah?”

“Can you speak to Grah?”

“Why? What did I do?” I asked, nervously. Not that I disliked Grah, I didn’t know him. But he was scary.

“He wants to talk to you. Wouldn’t hurt to get closer to the team. You miss a lot of practice,” Candar stated.

“It’s in my contract,” I replied defensively.

“Perhaps you have to think about what’s good for the team and what’s good for being a Factotum, and which you prefer being.”

I was going to tell him I didn’t particularly want to be anything, but a Factotum was higher on the list than a glocken reject. But, you know, Candar was so sincere I just couldn’t say it.

“I’ll talk to Grah,” I said.



“Hank. You are a great warrior. You have fought in many wars,” Grah said over ten minutes. I’m not kidding. It took him ten minutes to say that.

“Holy void, Grah, what do you want?” I asked, exasperated.

“You have k—” he started.

“Came? Cornered? Cajoled?” I tried to finish for him.

“Kiiiih—” he kept on.

“Kidded? Kissed? Kinned? Kicked?”

“Killed—” he managed.

“Killed. I killed someone? Killed something? Killed time? Killed brain cells? Killed kittens in kind with cadavers? What? What are you saying? Why are you so slow?” I yelled.

“Killed ma—”

“Please, stop. This is painful. I’ll go out and practice some more. I’ll even run against you if you’ll just stop talking. Please.”

“Mast—” he droned on.

“I can’t. I’m sorry, Grah. I can’t. I need to go,” I said, holding my head.

I could hear him talking to the empty space where I once stood. Trying desperately to finish a sentence. I was shaking. Not because I had maybe pissed off a 15,000 pound Gandrine, but because I had become so agitated listening to him.

It was like being forced to watch life in slow motion while you were in fast forward.

I was too tired and too upset to look for Kitt.





CHAPTER 11




Cliston came into my bedroom while I was sleeping the next day.

It was the weekend and we both had off. I had already determined I was going to sit out a week of practice, anyway. I was getting more hurt while I was supposed to be healing.

“Sir, there are some Po here to see you.”

I jolted awake.

“Some Po? As in plural?”

“Yes, sir.”

Either it was Ziggy’s fan club looking for his forwarding address or it was Zeti.

Zeti was a Boranjame. Po were their slaves—I’m not sure how Delovoa came by Ziggy.

Boranjame were the most powerful species in the galaxy. They existed, for the most part, on the outer rim, living on gigantic planet-sized spaceships. They were a crystalline race that never stopped growing. Last time I checked, Zeti occupied a building that was fifteen stories tall and he took up most of it.

Boranjame were cryptic. They hadn’t taken part in the galactic civil war, thankfully, even though they could have mopped up pretty much everyone.

They would occasionally putter around in their ships and tell everyone to leave a particular solar system because they were going to strip mine it. Anyone who stayed, of course, died, but they gave you the chance to leave.

Zeti usually gave me bad news. Boranjame had some strange prophetic abilities. One of them had once told me how I would eventually die, and it wasn’t all that pleasant.

Cliston got me dressed in my pimp clothes.

“Can I not have the eye-patch? I keep running into stuff,” I said.

“It is part of the wardrobe, sir.”

“Yeah, but…if I get used to no depth perception, it could throw off my glocken abilities once I go back to having two eyes. What would my general manager think?”

Cliston paused.

“Very well.” He went to my closet and returned, wrapping a bandana around the lower part of my face like I was a bank robber.

I sighed.

In my living room the Po jumped and spun and danced around like Po were wont to do. I couldn’t even count how many there were. Somewhere between four and six.

“Hi,” I said, my voice slightly muffled from the scarf.

They twittered faster.

“Want to take me to Zeti?” I asked stupidly, since they didn’t have mouths to answer me. “Um, everyone move over there if you want me to go to Zeti.”

A Po standing still was against its nature, so they were only more or less “over there.”

“Okay, I think I can fit you all in my limo.”



“This was a mistake,” I said, as I got slapped in the face for about the 400th time.

The Po bounced around inside my limo like they were particles in a nuclear reaction.

My driver had tried to close the divider between us, but a Po had managed to get up there before it shut. Now we were swerving all over the road as my driver got battered.

“You guys need to calm down or we’re not going to make it to Zeti in one piece,” I said.

Maybe they were claustrophobic.

We finally arrived at Zeti’s building and I threw open the car door.

I didn’t even get my foot out before all the Po ran over me and out into the street. Some were even across the street by the time I had righted myself, as if they wanted to get as far away from the car as possible.

The driver rolled down the window and the Po up front popped out.

My clothes were a mess, but you couldn’t really tell because they looked so absurd anyway. It’s like I was being extra eccentric by being a sloppy pimp.

I walked to the imposing building and the Po held the door for me as I entered the temple of Zeti.

There he, or it, floated: a nearly fifteen-story, complex crystalline creature. Zeti was beautiful in a way. He was not some big block of crystals like a Gandrine was stone. Somehow there were floating and rotating and spinning disks and plates and shapes of all kinds that moved in an orderly, hypnotic fashion. He was colored mostly blue, with the thick areas being almost black and the thin areas almost clear.

Zeti had no organic features such as a face or mouth or arms. He had to communicate through a set of speakers which the Po were setting up now.

Dozens of other Po were in the building, scurrying around, doing Po-stuff.

I waited as usual.

I was slightly relieved to see that Zeti hadn’t grown much, if at all, since the last time I saw him. I was worried what would happen if he became too big for this building or for Belvaille.

My feet really hurt from glocken and practice and the Po were taking longer than I expected, so I sat down on the floor. I don’t know if this was improper, but I also didn’t know if wearing a bandit mask was improper.

I looked at my socks while I waited. They were lacy and thin and didn’t absorb sweat very well. How did Cliston even get them on my feet without tearing them?

I heard the speakers click and I stood up.

“The First and Last has returned,” Zeti said.

That was kind of typical Boranjame talk. They weren’t big conversationalists.

“Cool,” I said, though I realized I shouldn’t be flippant with a fifteen-story crystal-thing who had relatives who drove around in spaceships the size of planets.

“It must be stopped,” Zeti continued.

“Who or what is it?” I asked politely.

“Among my people it has a name. It translates into The End.”

“What’s that mean?”

“It was the First and shall be the Last,” Zeti said.

I scratched my head under my bulky hat.

“I’m sorry, I don’t understand. You want me to find someone? I can maybe do that.”

“We destroyed its solar system,” Zeti said. “We were mistaken to do that.”

I sniffed.

“Yeah. It happens I guess. So this is a guy? What did he do?” I asked.

“I cannot say. It is forbidden.”

I took out my tele. I needed to write all this down because it was a lot more than Zeti usually said.

“There’s a lot of people in the galaxy. Can you give me a hint?”

“The End must be stopped. We created it. We created all of you.”

The speakers crackled with static as if Zeti were overcome with emotion, though the synthetic voice was calm and serene.

“Created us? Colmarians? That doesn’t make sense.”

“Your path is entwined with The End. You may have a chance.”

“Of what?” I asked.

“You may know the First and Last by a different name: Thad Elon.”





CHAPTER 12




Zeti said he couldn’t tell me more. Then they dismantled the speakers and the Po hustled me out of the building.

I was left on the sidewalk to ponder all that.

I played back my tele, but I had started it too late and all I recorded was me going, “uhh,” in confusion.

Thad Elon?

Thad Elon was one of the Creator Myths of the Colmarian Confederation. I wasn’t much on history, but even I knew the concept of him was rather far-fetched. The Colmarian Confederation had been a conglomeration of 50,000 species across the galaxy. One guy couldn’t possibly merge all those.

Also, although the Confederation had created Portals, it had done so after its empire had been established. So before that, distances had to be crossed via normal ship travel. It would have taken a trillion billion years to visit all those races.

And while we all spoke Colmarian now, before the Confederation there would have been well over 50,000 different languages. How did he communicate, using puppets?

There was simply no way one being, or even a hundred, could have pulled that many solar systems together in a lifetime. We knew for a fact there were stages in between. Like the Olmarr Republic. The Confederation took lots of millennia to form.

Zzzho had even told me the Keilvin Kamigans knew of Thad Elon. Maybe “Thad Elon” translated into something like, “person who makes tremendous mistakes.”

But Zeti told me there was a Thad Elon and apparently he was a big deal. Or the Boranjame thought so. And the Boranjame were the biggest of big deals in the galaxy—that I knew of.

What was Thad Elon going to do, make a new Colmarian Confederation? Was that so bad? The Confederation had been the most stunted and bureaucratic of empires, but compared to the loose association of a thousand warlords and nobles that we had now, it was a step up.

But whether there was a Creator God or not, what was I supposed to do about it? As of thirty minutes ago my biggest concern was being on injured reserve.



I went back home and kicked off my shoes and tore both my socks by accident.

Cliston immediately appeared.

“Sir, those were quite expensive. It would have taken me no time at all to remove them for you.”

“Cliston, I hate those silly socks. I feel like I’m sliding around in them.”

“We went over this, sir. You are sliding around in them. Your weight makes it difficult to use normal fabrics and designs. Now I have to buy another pair.”

“I look foolish,” I pouted.

“That’s the wardrobe a professional glocken player should wear.”

“Hey, Cliston. Do the Dredel Led know of someone called Thad Elon?” I asked.

He stopped examining my socks and looked up.

“Not a person, no. There is a story of a Thad Elon.”

“Really? What is it?”

“It is a legend, though its accuracy is much in dispute. The first Dredel Led weren’t robots as you know us now. They were the size of cities. It took larger and larger constructs to store their awareness.”

“Like how Boranjame keep growing?” I asked.

“Not quite. The Boranjame grow naturally, as I understand. Dredel Led had to keep becoming larger to continue learning. Thad Elon was a compound which allowed us to take the next step and create brains that were similar to organic ones. Our minds are no longer simple binary. They work much like yours and have the advantage of being vastly smaller than they once were.”

“I don’t know if your brain works anything like mine. I can’t be a general manager and sports agent and butler all at the same time.”

“No, but you organics can lie. And you can deceive yourself. And you can dream. And hallucinate. And you can walk and sing and clap your hands and imagine a red flower simultaneously with minimal effort.”

“So you’re saying you have Thad Elon in your head right now?” I asked.

“We don’t call it that. It’s just a normal part of our construction. In fact, it would be impossible for us to exist without it. At this point it’s not even a valuable substance. But it was a breakthrough at the time.”

“How is it that all these races have some kind of Thad Elon?” I wondered aloud. “You couldn’t come up with a different set of species than machine Dredel Led, gaseous Keilvin Kamigans, crystalline Boranjame, and the vast miscellany that are the Colmarians. And in each case it was a major person or thing. That can’t be random.”

“What did the Boranjame say it meant?” Cliston asked.

“It was really confusing. He said it was The End. And was the First and Last.” I shrugged.

“The Boranjame are an unusual species,” Cliston said.

“No kidding.”

“It has been speculated they all come from one original being that split itself apart. When the others grow too large, they likewise split into smaller entities. If that’s true, for Boranjame, there is no ‘end.’ That concept wouldn’t exist for them. They will all continue growing and splitting forever.”

“So do the Boranjame all have the same personality? I met a Prince once,” I said.

“I haven’t a clue, sir. You have probably met and spoken to more Boranjame on more occasions than any other person in this System. It’s generally not something that is done.”

“He said my path would cross with Thad Elon’s. You think it could be a glocken player?”

“If there was a glocken player that the Boranjame had specifically named and were concerned about, we would all know of him.”

“There’s not a lot I can do, then. Zeti’s mystical statements usually come around and hit me in the nose at some point.”

“Then I would like to take this time to point out our cash flow has dramatically decreased and we are in the red after buying the new furniture.”

“That’s your fault for paying me less on injured reserve,” I scolded.

“That was the general manager,” Cliston said.

I sighed.

“I think I can cobble together some jobs in the meantime. Is this ‘general manager’ going to fine me more for missing practice?”

“Yes, I suspect he will, sir.”





CHAPTER 13




“You didn’t tell me he had an army,” Delovoa said, as we moved through Procon Hobb’s building. Me on foot and Delovoa wheelchair-bound, his internal organs pulled along in the morbid trailer.

Once we had been allowed inside, we passed numerous sets of lizard guards with their oversized halberds. Each one made Delovoa more and more nervous.

We had gained access so easily because I could prove I was part of Hobb’s glocken team and Delovoa was part of his medical staff.

We were here to complete the job Podiver Vance mentioned at the Gent Club: try and secure Procon Hobb’s sloughed-off skin to give to some religious zealots for forty million.

Cliston had made it clear my decreased salary on injured reserve was not working well with my increased lifestyle. An extra forty large would go a long way in easing my household expenses.

“Of course he has an army, he’s a Procon,” I said.

“What is that, anyway?”

“I don’t know. Something they call rich frog-lizard guys that can talk in your head.”

“He owns our team. Is this going to get me fired?” Delovoa worried aloud for the tenth time.

“How often have you met Procon Hobb?”

“Not once,” he said.

“Exactly. He doesn’t care about the team. Or not much,” I said.

“And he doesn’t care we’re going to take his skin?”

“He’s not going to use it. Do you keep your dead skin?”

“Sure,” Delovoa replied.

“Yeah, but you’re weird,” I said.

“Then why don’t you ask him for it if he doesn’t care?”

“You don’t just ask a frog guy for his skin,” I said, like I did this all the time.

“But you’re a noble like him.”

“Not really. I’m just a Factotum with heraldry. No one is bowing to me. So is Ziggy still your butler?” I asked.

“Ziggles. No, he wasn’t a very good butler, anyway. He kept knocking everything over and running into me. But I get 15% of his salary.”

“Is that before or after Cliston gets his 15%?”

“After,” Delovoa said. “How much do I get again if I can help you with this?”

“Five million,” I replied.

“And how much do you get?”

“Doesn’t matter. I’m giving you five.”

A little bipedal lizard wearing bright flowers finally met with us and asked us to have a seat. There were small rocks for chairs around a pool of water. I got the impression the lizard was a male and some kind of administrator by the placement of his flowers and the clipboard he carried.

Delovoa obviously couldn’t sit on the rocks and they looked rather uncomfortable to me so I plopped myself on the dirt floor.

“What can I help you with?” the creature lisped.

“We are employees of Procon Hobb’s. We would like to speak to him,” I said.

“The Procon handles only the most important issues. I am happy to assist you.”

“I have security systems that your boss might find of use—” Delovoa began.

“We have ample security,” the administrator interrupted.

Delovoa and I exchanged looks, realizing our plan wasn’t that great. We sat there silently for a moment. Delovoa tapped at the pond with his wrinkly toe.

“Don’t do that,” the lizard said, annoyed.

“Sorry,” Delovoa answered.

“Hey, do you know I wrestled with some giant lizard a while ago?” I asked.

The little administrator looked at me but didn’t reply.

“Come on,” I continued. “It was huge. In a big ring. I think it was called an ‘Url’ or ‘Urp’ or something.”

“The Usk?” the administrator asked.

“Yeah! That’s it. Is it still alive? I choked it,” I said.

The man turned his head slightly and it was the closest to an emotional response I could read so far—because I wasn’t a lizard. He clearly didn’t believe me.

“You fought the Usk?” he asked.

“Yeah, it was a requirement to get a position on the glocken team. Did the Usk survive?”

“It’s alive, yes.”

“Oh, good. It was such a magnificent animal.”

“Perhaps we are speaking of different things. The Usk is a carnivore. It hunts and eats my people on our home world,” the man said.

“I didn’t mean magnificent as in a good thing,” I quickly backpedaled. “I’m obviously glad I beat it.”

“I don’t think you fought the Usk,” the administrator said.

“It whipped me with its tail and stuffed me down its mouth,” I said. “It just couldn’t swallow me.”

“Perhaps it was,” the little man said, surprised. “I believe it was ill for a while, but it has recovered.”

“What do you use it for? Security?” Delovoa asked.

“Those who disappoint Procon Hobb are fed to it,” the lizard said flatly.

“Sorry for wasting your time,” Delovoa said, putting his wheelchair in reverse and causing it to make an annoying beeping noise.

“We’ll see ourselves out,” I added.

Delovoa’s wheelchair must have had a supercharger because he took off at like forty miles an hour, leaving me far behind.



We were some blocks away on the sidewalk recounting our recent success.

“Excellent plan, Hank,” Delovoa taunted. “Walk in, distract them, and steal a Procon’s skin.”

“I never said I was a good thief.”

“You’re going to get us fed to an Usk, whatever the hell that is.”

“Meh, it already tried to eat me once.”

“Fine for you, fat boy, I don’t have your thunder thighs.”

“I doubt it could digest all your metal,” I said.

“Not much consolation knowing I’d give it indigestion.”

“Still, this is a lot of money,” I said.

“Not even you are dumb enough to consider going on with this. You saw they had a ton of guards in there. And it’s not like you can fight your way in and out, we’d both lose our jobs. Do you plan on dressing up like a giant flower and waiting in his bathroom for him to molt?”

“I’m thinking these people that want Hobb’s skin are going to be happy with any amount they get.”

“So he’s going to give you a little bit? Like if you kissed his hand and got a mouthful?”

“No. I’m thinking the people won’t know Hobb’s skin from an Usk’s skin.”

“How are you going to get either of their skins?”

“The Usk has to eat, right?”



This was a boring job.

I was keeping track of everything that came and went from Hobb’s building.

Supplies. Repairs. Servants.

I’d track the deliveries. And if I couldn’t track them, I’d simply stop the courier, flash my Factotum badge, and ask them. And if that still didn’t persuade them, I’d flash a gun.

Delovoa was off trying to research Usks and Hobbs. We had to be sure we didn’t poison the wrong guy. It would just be my luck if we killed Procon Hobb and we not only had to try and beat a murder rap, but became unemployed.

Fortunately, Delovoa teled me that Hobb was a vegetarian. The Usk, as we already knew, was a meat eater.

I figured the Usk couldn’t be constantly eating servants. Hobb would quickly find himself polishing his own toilets.

But what would an Usk eat? And how would I recognize it?

Maybe I should disguise myself as a big flower and sneak in.

It was the third day of my stake-out when a truck pulled up in the rear. They used some heavy lifters to unload big crates with holes punched in them.

The crates were bouncing around and I saw what looked like long black insect legs poke out now and then. The boxes were about six feet long and the holes were maybe four inches. Whatever bugs were in there were the kind you’d think twice about stepping on, and definitely the kind you would feed to a thirty-foot-long lizard.

I followed the truck back to its delivery service.

I greased the palm of the dispatcher with 1,000 credits to get the lowdown. They picked up the shipment from the port. All he knew was they were some big bugs.

I went to the warehouse but it was too busy to try anything. I waited for most of the employees to leave for the night and spoke to one of the late-shift janitors. I only had to give him 100 credits and listen to his lame stories for an hour.

He let me track down the box that had been delivered to Hobb’s and its manifest.

From the manifest, I could get the quarantine information details.

But the Central Authority handled quarantine. And dealing with the C.A., when I was planning on conning a nobleman, was a risky proposition.





CHAPTER 14




I didn’t have enough credits to bribe the Central Authority, but I did have an in with my old Deputy Kommilaire. Man by the name of MTB.

He wouldn’t care about my job, or motives, and would figure—quite rightly—that I was up to no good. He tried to kill me at least once.

I called the C.A. and they told me where I could find him. He was in the western part of the city, sitting in a patrol car.

That was weird for a number of reasons. That a random person could call up and be told where a particular Inspector was, and that MTB, after all those years as an Inspector, was still an Inspector.

I leaned in the open window of his car and he pulled a gun on me.

“Oh,” he said when he saw me, but he didn’t put the gun down.

MTB was a big guy with a square jaw whose uniform was so starched it could probably deflect neutrinos.

“Hey, MTB, you got a minute to talk?”

He looked around, as if he was expecting a riot to break out in stuffy Belvaille any second.

“Yes.” And he started to get out of his car.

“Can’t we sit down? I walked two blocks from my limo.”

“Where did you park?” he asked suspiciously.

“I’m not telling you. You’ll probably try and give my driver a ticket.”

“You can’t sit in a patrol car unless I arrest you. Regulations.”

MTB was big on regulations. He lived for them. So he would never make more than Inspector. His bosses probably hated him. Our whole economy was based on nobles double-dealing with gang lords and here you had a cop who was incorruptible.

He took out a truncheon and twirled it as we walked along the sidewalk.

“You’re playing glocken now?” he asked.

“Yeah. Cliston is making me wear these stupid clothes.”

He looked me over, apparently for the first time.

“You always wore weird clothes. What do you want?”

“I need to track a manifest to its origination and see when a similar shipment is coming in next.”

“That’s illegal,” he stated flatly.

“Really? Illegal? There’s a law that specific?” I asked doubtfully.

“Immoral,” he corrected.

“No one is going to care or notice,” I said.

“Clearly someone would or you wouldn’t want the information.”

This guy…

“Come on, for old time’s sake. Saving Belvaille and such.”

He looked around in the most obvious, exaggerated way possible for a good thirty seconds. It was so long that I started looking around, too.

“What?” I asked.

“In here,” he whispered, and he motioned for me to step into the recessed doorway of a building.

“I might can help you,” he said.

“Uh, good.”

“If you can help me.”

“What do you need?” I asked.

“A Central Officer was killed. An Inspector. I need to find his killer.”

“That might be hard. I only got a few days left on injured reserve and we’re off on another game. But what are the details?”

“He was following up on an agreement between Yibble-Sone and the Gwarsh Concern,” MTB said.

“Oh, this was recent. Maybe a few months ago?”

“Three weeks ago.”

“Well, the agreement was a few months. I know, since I offered to be the Factotum.”

“Do you think you can find out who killed him?” MTB asked.

“Do you want to know or do your bosses?” I asked.

He paused to think about that.

“Both. But my bosses most. They can’t have Central Authority killed with no payback.”

“Well, I can tell you right now.”

MTB gave me a hard look.

“Don’t you want to know the name of the Inspector first and what he was doing?”

“I don’t need to know. The agreement was for the Belvaille planetoid way out there. The Gwarsh Concern runs their food operations and Yibble-Sone is the noble that owns all the machinery. Who was the Factotum that handled the agreement?”

“Univox Factotal,” he said, not understanding.

I laughed.

“Perfect! Xandale’s group. Big buck-toothed goon. It was one of his people that killed your Inspector.”

MTB sighed.

“No, I’m not doing some Hank snow job. I need to know who really did it,” MTB said.

“And I’m telling you. That agreement is one of the most important ones in this whole System—that’s why I bid on it. The planetoid supplies the only food that is naturally grown here. Everything else comes from the Portals and other Systems. It’s not good food, but it’s cheaper by orders of magnitude. If they shut down that food supply, we’re completely at the mercy of imported food. So you can’t blame Gwarsh Concern or Yibble-Sone because if they object and shut down our food, people are going to starve. You have to blame Univox Factotal. They’re the only ones without leverage in this arrangement.”

“But what if it was Gwarsh or Yibble-Sone?” he asked.

I shrugged.

“The point is that someone pays for the murder, right? You’ll never find out for sure unless you get a confession, which simply won’t happen. The important thing is we keep getting food. Xandale can even write off the death as part of doing business. He’s got a ton of Factotums…just pick one.”

MTB’s dark face got darker as he contemplated this.

“Isn’t there some honor among Factotums?” he asked.

“Not that I know of.”





CHAPTER 15




I had been worried that there would only be one shipment of bugs a year and I’d have a hard time intercepting it.

But that was dumb. The Usk was an enormous lizard. There was a shipment every week.

There was a freighter in Belvaille System whose sole job it was to breed insects for one lizard. I felt a little bad that I would be putting those people out of business by killing the Usk. I also felt kind of bad about whoever was going to get blamed for killing MTB’s Inspector. And I felt bad about our plan to poison a lizard, take its skin, then give it to religious wackos and pretend it was a different lizard skin.

But feeling bad doesn’t pay the rent.

I told MTB he should talk to Xandale and coordinate who would be their fall guy. That way Xandale could pick his worst employee; MTB could explain how it was and no hard feelings; and even the guy who had to take the blame would be able to buy some life insurance or otherwise look out for his family.

But no, MTB wouldn’t do that. He was going to tell his bosses it was Univox Factotal and nothing more. They would drop the hammer and it would take everyone by surprise, especially since they likely had nothing to do with it. As much as I disliked Xandale, he wasn’t so stupid as to murder a Central Authority Inspector.

But MTB didn’t want to lie further—once was his limit. He was an odd guy. He didn’t understand that often there was no good option, just a less bad one.

In any case, six hours later he gave me the details of when the next shipment of bugs was.



Delovoa had been concocting a poison we could put on the insects that would hopefully kill the Usk. Of course, it couldn’t be so toxic it would kill anyone handling the bugs or be detectible by sight or smell. Not an easy task since the Usk wasn’t exactly a dainty creature.

Delovoa came over to my place with a bunch of tools, safety equipment, and a box full of lizard poison.

“Sir, should I wait up for you?” Cliston asked.

“No.”

“You do have a game the day after tomorrow. And I notice the doctor is with you, so he is not assisting the injured players,” Cliston said with some gravity.

“Oh, hi, boss,” Delovoa said meekly, twiddling his fingers in a wave.

“It’s a good thing my butler saw us going out, and not my general manager,” I said. “Goodnight, Cliston, my butler.”

“Goodnight, sir.”

We left and Delovoa turned to me.

“Wait, he didn’t see us?”

“Don’t ask.”



This time I had to pay the janitor of the warehouse 500 credits.

I promised we weren’t going to steal anything.

He promised that for 500 credits, he didn’t care.

We found the bug boxes but they were too high up to reach. I had to get the janitor and pay him another 238 credits—all I had on me—to get the crates down. He wasn’t very gentle. He was a janitor, not a warehouse loader, and wasn’t an expert with the machinery.

There were two large crates of bugs and they were kicking up a storm now that they had been dropped on the floor.

The janitor took his money and left in a hurry.

“Do you just put the poison in there?” I asked.

“No, you have to attach the packets to them.”

“Well, I guess open it up.”

“You open it up,” Delovoa said.

“You have the tools.”

Delovoa threw the toolbox at me, where it clanged by my feet.

“I don’t know where the poison goes,” I said.

“Anywhere you can put it. It will attach and blend to their coloration.”

I looked at the box. It was a sturdy plastic construction, secured on the top with six bolts.

I got a ratchet that would fit and slowly started undoing them.

I was at the last one and put the bolt on the ground with the others.

“Okay, hand me one of those poison things,” I said.

“Put on gloves first.”

I put on gloves, as did Delovoa. He removed a small square sack with adhesives all around it. It was maybe an inch thick and three inches square.

I held it delicately, but then put it on the ground so I could open the top of the crate.

“Wait—” Delovoa started.

I took off the cover and three big bugs jumped out! One knocked over Delovoa in his wheelchair. One landed on my chest. And I didn’t see much of the other because I had a big black bug in my face.

I tried to punch it but it took off before I even cocked my arm back.

Delovoa was on the ground screaming.

I looked around but the bugs were gone.

“Easy, easy,” I said. I walked over to Delovoa and righted him in his chair.

He was almost sobbing.

“Are you okay?” I asked him.

He started slapping at me with his bony old fingers.

“You moron! You incredibly stupid moron! Why would you just open the crate? Did you think they were wearing seatbelts?” he yelled.

“I don’t know. I guess…I mean what do they do at Procon Hobb’s?”

“They probably have handlers. Feeders. Or they just dump them in a room with the Usk and let it chase them.”

I glanced around the big dark warehouse.

“Well, those are gone,” I said.

“You think? You want to try whistling and see if they respond?”

“We have one more crate.”

“Don’t open it!”

“I’m not. But I can’t fit my hand through those holes and I doubt you can either,” I said.

“I’m not reaching in there!” Delovoa shivered.

“I can’t catch them, they’re too fast. Maybe if we put the two crates together I could open it a little,” I said.

“No. Give me a minute.” Delovoa zipped off in his wheelchair. He was clearly freaked out by the insects.

He came back maybe five minutes later with a fire extinguisher.

“This should work. The cold will slow them down. Maybe even put them into temporary hibernation.”

“Will it kill them? I don’t know if they’ll feed him dead bugs,” I said.

“I don’t think it will kill them. But we’ll spray. Knock the box some and see how they react. And spray more if we have to.”

It was a good plan and we managed to put three poison pouches on two of the insects, Delovoa telling me to be very cautious, as he stayed a comfortable twenty feet away.

I put the lid back on the crate and secured the bolts. We dragged the empty crate to my limo and dumped it ten blocks away.

Now we just had to wait for the Usk to die.





CHAPTER 16




Now this was really boring.

Delovoa and I were sitting in my limo, staking out the trashcans of Procon Hobb’s building, waiting for them to dump out the carcass of a giant poisoned lizard so we could skin it and sell it for forty million.

“Is this worth it?” Delovoa asked.

“Cliston just bought me like sixty million of new furniture and artwork and clothes. And a new car.”

“So you’re getting sixty for this and you’re only paying me five?

“No, I’m not getting that much. He bought delfiblinium furniture.”

“Why?” Delovoa cried.

“I don’t know. It’s just what he does.”

We saw some servants take out a bunch of trashcans and empty them into the dumpster.

“That was a lot. Go check,” Delovoa said.

I sighed and got out. I crossed the street and made sure the coast was clear. I lifted the lid on the dumpster but I couldn’t reach the bags. I had to climb in. Cliston was going to kill me. I was already covered in garbage.

Ripping open the bags I thought I finally had it. There was blood and guts and scales. But it was way too small.

“Ick,” I said.

I went back to the limo.

“I think that was one of his servants in there. Definitely wasn’t the Usk,” I said.

“I know.”

“How do you know?” I asked, annoyed.

“Procon Hobb’s people just called me,” Delovoa said. “They want to hire me to stuff the Usk.”

“Stuff it? What the hell does that mean?”

“Taxidermy. They’re going to give me the carcass so I can stuff it. I guess he wants it in his hallway or something.”

“I’ve been dumpster diving for five hours and they’re just going to give you the Usk?” I yelled.

“Why are you complaining? This is what we wanted, right?”

“Why would he contact you?” I asked.

“I don’t know. Because I’m a doctor?”

“You’re not a doctor,” I said.

“I took out all my own internal organs and put them in a functional, iatric carriage to extend my lifespan, and removed the top of my skull to excavate my cranium.”

“I guess you are sort of a doctor,” I conceded.





CHAPTER 17




“Not so tough now, are you?” I said, kicking the stiff and extremely smelly lizard corpse inside of Delovoa’s home.

“I can’t believe you fought this,” Delovoa said.

“It wasn’t really a fight. It just ate me,” I replied.

“So how big is Procon Hobb?” Delovoa asked, cutting open the creature’s stomach with an electric saw. “I have to leave most of this intact.”

“He’s a big guy. Like a big frog-lizard.”

“That doesn’t tell me anything,” Delovoa said, as the creature’s guts sloshed onto the floor.

“Thad Elon’s Two Buttholes, that stinks!” I said.

“Yeah, it’s totally weird. Most corpses smell great,” Delovoa taunted. “How big is Hobb? Real numbers.”

“I don’t know. Probably eight feet tall or more. But he was wide. I wasn’t paying much attention to Hobb, I was fighting this Usk,” I said, kicking its tail again. “And when I was negotiating with him, he was sitting in a pond.”

“As big as this thing is, we don’t have enough material to stuff it and also give skin to your buyer.”

“Well, you’re getting five million for the skin. How much are you getting as a taxidermist?” I asked.

“Not much. But Hobb throws his servants in the dumpster or feeds them to this thing. If he finds out we robbed him, I can’t imagine he’ll be very happy.”

“He only killed his servants. We’re valuable employees.”

“Am I a valuable employee? Because you’re not,” Delovoa countered.

“Well, he likes Cliston. Cliston will stick up for us if it comes down to it.”

Delovoa cut and cut and I hauled the innards and meat trying to make space. We were in Delovoa’s basement, which was vast, but he had so much junk down here.

“This isn’t going to work,” Delovoa said after a few brutal hours. “There’s not enough here. I say we just stuff it and keep our jobs. We can sell the meat to the butchers.”

“It’s poisoned, right?”

Delovoa shrugged.

“Come on,” I said, “get creative. I’m not giving up forty million.”

“You’re getting forty? I want half!” Delovoa demanded.

“You’ll get five. Be artistic. Cut off a leg and have it standing in a fake river. And have the tail emerging from a cave, that way we can cut it off.”

“Does an Usk live in rivers and caves?” Delovoa asked.

“It looks like it would live wherever it wanted, so why not?”

We ordered some blue plastic fake trees and plants and it was starting to come together. I was hacking apart the tail, which was four inches thick of skin and a good six inches of hard sinew under that.

“What are you doing?” Delovoa yelled.

“Hobb doesn’t have a tail, I have to cut and unroll this.”

“Yeah, but he’s supposed to have shed the skin, not chopped it off his own body. You’re putting cut marks all over it. It has to be smooth and rounded.”

I threw down the saw.

“Well, it’s the wrong color and way too thick if it’s supposed to be shed. It’s obvious that this recently died.”

We were both getting pissy because of the hard work of ripping apart a monster lizard and standing inside its stinking corpse for hours.

“Don’t worry about that. I’ll throw it in acid and bleach. I got a huge tub for disposing of bodies,” Delovoa said creepily. “But use the rounded flensing blade. If it’s got rectangular gashes all over it, it won’t fool anyone.”

I gazed upon the wide array of stainless steel implements around us.

“Okay, I get that you have to work on your own body, but why do you have all this stuff?”

“Alternative medicine,” Delovoa said.

I held up what looked like a large metal bottle opener, complete with corkscrew.

“What’s this for?”

“Eyeballs.”



After six more hours of vomit-inducing and acid-gagging work, I had sheets and sheets of what genuinely looked like it could be Procon Hobb’s shed skin. It was pale and curled and had the outline of scales on it. The claw was the best part, though the actual nails were missing.

All told, the section of skin was nearly sixty pounds.

I was running through the last finishing touches, scraping out any residual meat the acid hadn’t caught.

“I have to say, it looks pretty good,” I stated.

Delovoa was busy trying to taxiderm an Usk using a fraction of an Usk.

“Well, you better pay me soon, because I think I’m going to have to flee the System when Hobb sees this.”

He was right, it wasn’t very lifelike.

“Why don’t you open its mouth and stuff a bunch of its entrails in it? Have them pouring out. That will distract people from the fact so much of it is missing,” I said.

“Why would it be eating itself?”

“They’re just guts. How many people know what an Usk gallbladder looks like? It will be scary. Just spray some stuff on all these organs so they don’t rot and cover it in them. I got the sense they thought the Usk was a really ferocious predator.”

“Maybe because their boss fed them to it,” Delovoa chided.

“So quit trying to make it look dignified and make it frightening. Then you can use all these leftover parts.”

Delovoa thought it over.

“You know, I could have just the front half of it, soaked in blood, covered in gore, emerging from the darkness.”

“And they could hang it on the wall,” I said.

“That sounds good,” he agreed.

Delovoa, not one for long discussions, fired up the saw and began slicing the Usk in half.

“I’m going to take this skin to my buyer,” I yelled over the noise.

Delovoa nodded without looking up. He seemed disturbingly proficient at the work.



Belvaille didn’t exactly have a night time since it didn’t orbit a star, but just for convenience—and sanity—we still recognized a day and night.

They would dim the latticework lights when it was our approximation of night, though it never got completely dark.

It was early morning and I was covered in Usk blood and had the skin in my arms as I stepped out of Delovoa’s home into Belvaille’s night.

I was immediately blinded by lights shined in my face.

“Hank, having just come from Delovoa’s, can we assume you were working on private physical therapy?” I heard Rendrae ask.

“Will you be available for tomorrow’s upcoming game?” The second question I recognized as the robotic voice of Rendrae’s announcer friend, Oxobox.

“Uh,” I said smoothly.

This was the first time I had seen Rendrae’s co-announcer. Every Dredel Led looked different. Not just like people looked different, Dredel Led had wildly different forms. This one was about four feet tall, and was a perfectly round, silver metal sphere. It had some lights on it which were maybe eyes or sensors or who knows, a belly button. It would roll back and forth a bit as it talked, like it was fidgeting. I found it odd that “box” was part of its name when it was a globe, but who could figure out Dredel Led?

Rendrae and Oxobox were almost twins in a way. Rendrae was green and fleshy, but he was enormously fat. Not blubbery, but just impossibly round. Maybe that’s how they met, at some spheroid convention.

“You look to have gone through quite a rigorous program,” Rendrae continued. “Is that blood?”

“Maybe,” I said, stalling, looking for my limo.

“Were you bleeding or was it a transfusion?” Oxobox asked.

“Neither. I was just, we were practicing.”

I saw they were shining lights from tele cameras in my face. I tried to get past them.

“Hank, can we ask why you were at Procon Hobb’s earlier? Were you discussing your contract?” Rendrae asked.

“I wasn’t there,” I said.

“A fan provided video,” he said.

“Let me see.”

I walked over and he called up the video on his tele. It showed someone leaving the dumpster but was shaky and hard to make out.

“That’s not me,” I said.

“Let’s zoom in and clean it up,” Rendrae offered.

He did so and there was my big dumb face, looking around cautiously, clearly not seeing whatever person was filming this.

“Oh, yeah,” I added. “I was just leaving.”

“His dumpster?” Rendrae pushed.

“I had lunch with him and dropped some important…glocken plays in the waste basket and I realized that anyone could find those—”

“And compromise your game?” Oxobox finished.

“Exactly.”

“Why didn’t you tell his servants?” Rendrae questioned, knowing me better than Oxobox.

“I’m a doer. Why leave it to someone else? Besides, how do I know that servant wouldn’t turn around and sell it?” I asked.

“So it was an important set of plays?” Oxobox asked.

“You’ll see in the game,” I said confidently.

“What were they about?” Rendrae continued, sensing I was full of crap.

“By the way, I would like to give a shout out to my girl, Kitt,” I said.

“Your girl? Are you dating the 4-lane on the Belvaille Glocken Team?” Rendrae asked, suddenly shifting news gears.

“I wouldn’t say ‘dating.’ But you know how it is. Tight quarters. Athletes. Comradery. Nudity.”

“Nudity? I’m sorry, I don’t understand,” Oxobox beeped.

“Yeah, Magda makes us all be naked in the training facility. Nude at all times. Kitt in there, working out. Sweat dripping off her body.” I looked at my bloody fingers lazily.

Fat, old Rendrae was blinking.

“So you’re definitely playing next game?” Oxobox asked, oblivious.

“Wait, wait, wait. So everyone is naked in your training facility? Is that why no press are allowed?” Rendrae asked.

“All the players are naked. Who cares about the coaches?” I said.

“And Garm. Garm’s naked too?” he asked.

“Sure.”

“Are you still dating Garm? You had dated Garm, right?” Rendrae stammered.

I felt I had conveniently changed the subject from why I was covered in blood, raiding trashcans, and walking around with a giant lizard skin.

“Garm? That was ancient history. Besides, I take it as it comes, have to keep your options open, am I right?” I asked.

“Yeah, Hank! You’re right. Good luck with your game!” Rendrae said.

Oxobox was trying to ask some more questions, but I walked past.

“Thanks, Rendrae. I’ll see about getting you some press access to the gym,” I called back.

“Will you? Thanks, Hank! Good luck, again!”





CHAPTER 18




“Why should I deliver the skin?” I asked. “You’re supposed to be the middleman.”

“No, I’m the Finder’s Fee man,” Podiver Vance replied via tele. “Besides, I don’t want to deal with a bunch of religious nuts.”

“I don’t either. And I don’t want them to see that Hobb’s employee took his skin,” I said.

“You don’t have to deliver it in person. Send someone else.”

But I wasn’t going to do that. This was a forty-million-credit transaction. That’s enough money that I wanted to be there in person.

I dressed in one of my least ostentatious suits.



I was at the end of an alley between two tall buildings waiting for the buyers to appear on the other side.

My limo was just around the corner in case I needed to make a getaway. I would have liked it to be right behind me, but it would have to double-park. Just my luck the parking police would show up and I’d be standing here with a drapery set of living tissue—talk about probable cause.

The location was far in the southwest of Belvaille. Away from City Hall. Away from the port. Away from the Central Authority.

Two robed figures appeared at the other end, finally. They were twenty minutes late.

I couldn’t see much about them other than they were medium height and were pulling a rather large trunk.

The robes I had suspected. Seems religions of all sorts loved robes. What is it with pants and slacks that holy men couldn’t stand? Did you need air circulating to your groin to let in the holy spirits?

The trunk reassured me a bit. If they had just been carrying a satchel I knew they wouldn’t have forty million. Even in large denominations it was going to take up a lot of room.

They stood there.

I stood here.

I waved.

They slowly started walking forward.

I didn’t want to enter the alley. But I also didn’t want to make the transaction out in the open. The alley was almost completely obscured. It was a narrow strip between a hotel and a mansion. The gap between the buildings was only about ten feet wide.

There was a fire escape high up on the hotel beyond reach and numerous large metal trashcans near my side. I figured I would duck behind them if any shooting started.

“Do you have the skin?” one of them yelled out. I could tell they were newbies. You don’t yell illegal business deals. He had a thick accent, but just about everyone in the former Colmarian Confederation had an accent.

“I do. Do you have the payment?” I asked.

One of the men raised his hand toward me and I heard a voice say, “Bang!”

Literally, someone said the word, “bang!”

And I got shot in the left eyeball!

I’ve been shot…a lot. Pretty much all over. Bottoms of the feet. Butt. Toes. Nose. I don’t think I had actually ever been shot on my eyeball.

It was an impossible shot. I was walking. My eyes weren’t exactly bulbous. I tended to blink now and then.

There was a building straight across the street with no windows. If the sniper had been on top of the building it would be a thirty-story shot at a ridiculous angle into the darkness of the alley. Who the hell shot me?

I ducked to the right side and tried to scramble forward to get near the trashcans.

I felt my face and there was blood coming down, but I was too jacked on adrenaline to know if I had suffered a serious wound.

Was it just the two guys?

I tried to listen for footsteps or running or talking.

I set aside the lizard skin and took out my gun. It was a sawed-off shotgun loaded with buckshot. The shotgun was the perfect weapon for this alley. I didn’t need to see them, I just needed to get within about forty feet.

But I had no idea where they were or what they were doing. More importantly, I didn’t know who had the gun.

I had to take a look.

I took a deep breath and quickly thrust my head out.

“Bang! Bang!” Someone said.

And I got shot in my left eye again and my right eyeball!

“Gah!” I said, diving back into cover.

I had my left eye closed and they hit it perfectly. My right eye had been hit as soon as it passed the cover of the trash bin. It wasn’t possible anyone could be that accurate and fast.

I could tell by the voice of the person who had said “Bang” that the speaker was only about fifty feet away. I didn’t need to see. I was going to fill this alley with steel buckshot.

I took my gun in my hands, closed both eyes, and stood up and faced the alley.

“Bang! Bang!” The speaker said again.

I felt the impacts on both of my hands and I dropped my shotgun. I opened my mouth in shock and pain.

“Bang!”

I got hit in my bottom two teeth before I fell back into cover.

Now I was pretty worried. I was blind. My hands hurt. My jaw ached.

But the voice had sounded like it was only a short distance closer. They were taking their time getting here.

Somewhere, out of the back of my head, I heard Magda Strongarm yelling at me that I was worthless. I sucked as a glocken player and sucked as a rare-skin smuggler.

Then I thought of glocken. And practice.

You know, I could probably throw these big trashcans. Twist them like tokens. And they were wide enough that they would go bouncing and clanging down this narrow alley so I didn’t even have to be accurate. I just had to get the distance.

I took hold of the nearest trashcan, feeling around for the best grip. I could tell it was full. This one was closest to the street and probably got the most use. I felt it was maybe 600 pounds in weight. Not massive, but it was boxy and not exactly designed for throwing.

I thought about how to position myself in the alley so I wouldn’t smack into the far wall as I twisted.

I snapped it up, moved to what I thought was the center of the alley, did two spins, and flung it.

There was what felt like a five-second delay and then I heard a scream followed by a crash.

No way! I hit one! I was just hoping to scare them off.

Now I was standing there in the center of sniper alley waiting to get shot, but nothing came.

I heard rapid footsteps approaching and I hunkered down for a frontal attack.

Someone brushed past me, I heard a swoosh, and they were gone.

My eyes were still bleeding but I was starting to see some hazy images with my right eye. My teeth were okay from what I could tell. My hands had been through a lot worse than this.

The lizard skin was gone. The person must have snatched it and ran.

I should get out of here, there was no way they had brought forty million if they were just going to shoot me. But the idiot in me wanted to be sure, and I also wanted to admire the fact that I had hit someone with a trashcan from almost forty feet away.

I got over to the robed figure on the ground. He didn’t look so hot.

But he wouldn’t look so hot even if he were still alive. He was a Rettosian.

Rettosians were one of the major empires in the galaxy. They were ancient and, so I’ve heard, used to be much more important as a species. Now they were relegated to a smallish territory and of minor significance.

The stereotype of them was that they were a conceited race. Like they didn’t realize they were no longer a big player and acted as if people should take them seriously.

From a physical standpoint they looked like normal bipedal Colmarians. Except their skin continuously oozed colorful…syrup. It sounded gross but the Rettosian diplomats I had seen before wore outfits that would capture and propel the substance into little waterfalls and trumpets and fountains. It was fairly attractive as ooze went.

Looking down at this dead Rettosian, I saw his chest had been punctured by the corner of the dumpster. Under his robes he wore a plastic compression suit. It kept the ooze in place, but it swirled around.

I wasn’t an eye doctologist, but my vision was slowly clearing. I think it was more blood than anything that blurred my eyesight.

I covered my face with my hand and peeked upward through my fingers. Where could those shots have come from? Was someone at the end of the alley and I hadn’t seen them?

With my off-hand I looked through the large trunk that was still on the ground.

Yup. Empty.

I was about to leave when I saw a pistol about ten feet away from the corpse.

I walked to it, still covering myself.

Was it possible this guy shot me? With a pistol?

I picked it up and it was clearly a prop of some kind. There was no trigger. No slide. No hammer. No anything. It was like a toy cutout of a pistol. The only thing that made it stand out was that it was gleaming chrome. It was so shiny that light seemed to emanate from it. From a distance it looked two-dimensional because there were hardly any shadows. On further inspection, I noticed it didn’t reflect. It was polished to a mirror sheen but had no colors other than chrome.

How strange.

I turned it around trying to figure out what its purpose was. The Rettosian brought it for some reason. Clearly someone had a gun, my eyeballs could attest to that.

I foolishly pressed the empty space where the trigger should be, when I heard:

“What are you trying to do?”

It was the same voice that had said, “Bang!” right before I was shot. I was sure of it. It was just a regular male voice. Clear. Sounded like a banker.

“Uh. Who are you?” I asked. I was pretty sure the voice came from the gun. Was it a radio? Was that how the Rettosians had contacted their sniper?

“Who are you?” the voice replied.

“You know who I am. Where’s my money!” I demanded from the gun.

“I wouldn’t know,” the voice said.

“Hey, who are you?” I yelled, getting my face close to the weapon, assuming it was some kind of tele.

“Who are any of us, really? I can’t say.”

I felt exposed in this alley after having my corneas blasted. There was clearly no money to be had, so I headed back to my limo, zig zagging like a very sluggish glocken player. It was rather pointless. If I could get repeatedly shot in the eyes, my assailant would have no problem hitting my much larger backside.

But I made it out of the alley, still holding the featureless gun.

“What’s your name?” I asked the voice, once I was safely away from the alley.

“No one has ever asked me that before. I’m not sure. I hear the word ‘gun’ a lot. Why not just call me that?” the voice said.

“Where are you?” I demanded.

“I don’t know. You’re the one holding me. You probably have a better idea than I do,” the voice said.

I got the idea the voice was trying to say it was the gun itself.

“W-wait. Are you a Dredel Led or something?” I asked, not sure if this was an elaborate trick and if so, to what purpose. They already had the fake skin.

“What’s a Dredel Led?” Gun asked.

“A robot.”

“What’s a robot?”

“Who shot me?” I asked, changing the subject.

“I did,” Gun said.

“You? You’re a functioning…gun?”

“I believe so.”

“Why would you do that?”

“Do what? You are confusing me,” Gun said.

“Prove it.”

“Prove that I’m confused?”

“That you’re a real gun,” I demanded.

“What else would I be?”

“I don’t know. Prove it! Shoot something,” I said, waving Gun around.

“I don’t see anything.”

“You’re lying. Is this just a tele? Where are you at?” I demanded.

“I don’t know.”

“Just shoot that wall,” I said, aiming.

“I’m tired,” Gun said.

“How can a gun be tired? Who were those Rettosians?”

“What’s a Rettosian?”

“It’s a…what are you? Seriously,” I said.

“Didn’t we go over this?”





CHAPTER 19




I was putting my stuff on the long-haul shuttle the team used for a bus. We would have nearly a month in space to reach our next game.

I saw Delovoa and pulled him aside.

“The deal fell through. I didn’t get the money,” I said.

Delovoa seemed indifferent.

“Eh. I got to stuff an Usk. That was fun.”

I had a million explanations I was going to use on why he wasn’t going to get his five million cut, but he didn’t seem to care.

“I also got this,” I said, holding Gun out to him.

“A toy?”

“No, it’s like…a sentient gun,” I said, looking around.

Delovoa stared at me.

“I’m sure it is, buddy. You look like you got shot in the face. Go to your cabin and I’ll give you something to help you sleep: really dull music.”

“I’m serious,” I said. “It had this huge conversation with me. I wanted you to take a look at it.”

I handed it to the skeptical Delovoa who turned the shiny chrome weapon over in his hands.

“Hello?” he said to Gun.

It was silent.

“Let me guess, it only talks when you’re alone. Um, did this voice happen to tell you that you’re a space god and you should kill us while we sleep?”

“No. It didn’t say a lot. Not of substance, anyway,” I said.

“Well, sure. The pistol education system is totally substandard nowadays. It’s no wonder it entered a life of crime.”

“Shut up and scan it. Maybe it’s just a radio or tele. But I want to see,” I said.

“I don’t have my full lab here. I’m a doctor on board this ship, not a toy repairman.”

“Just look, will you?”

“You’re awful demanding for someone who owes me five million credits,” Delovoa called after me as I walked away.

I turned a corner and was slapped by Magda Strongarm.

“Where were you?” she demanded.

“When?”

“Don’t answer my question with a question!” She yelled.

I thought for a moment.

“I was in the bathroom,” I said, choosing a random point in time that she could be referring to.

“Why are your eyes bloodshot?” she asked.

“I was practicing glocken,” I said.

“If you said you were off drug-binging I’d at least respect that as believable. Report to rehabilitation. I want them to check you out.”



You wouldn’t think they would have a bunch of training facilities in a shuttle—or at least I wouldn’t—but here it was.

They had me read off an examination chart, and even though I did fine, they started jabbing me in the eyes anyway. When they were done, I was almost as bad as after I had been shot.

They put in some drops and it stung like hell and everything was blurry.

While I was so incapacitated, they worked over my muscles with what felt like a jackhammer. They tried to tell me the reasons but I couldn’t hear them over the engine.

I was limping back to my quarters when someone walked up in front of me.

“Who’s old?” I heard Garm demand.

“Garm, I can’t see well, my body hurts, and I’m not in the mood for riddles,” I said.

“Why did you tell Rendrae I was old?” she said, blocking me from moving past.

“What are you talking about? Rendrae isn’t even here.”

“You gave an interview where you called me old.”

“No, I didn’t. You’re being paranoid. Besides, I’m way older than you,” I said.

Garm took out her tele and showed me the interview. It was when I was outside of Delovoa’s, trying to fast-talk away from the reporters.

I couldn’t see it well, but I could hear it:

“Garm is ancient,” the tape said.

“Really? She’s a great glocken player,” Rendrae replied.

“Garm is ancient,” the tape version of me repeated.

“I didn’t say that. They edited my voice. I said us dating was ancient history. I never called you ancient,” I complained.

Garm continued to play the interview.

“By the way, I do my tight girl, Kitt, nude. Oh, yeah!” The tape continued. It sounded perfect. Not choppy at all.

“I don’t talk like that,” I said.

“You dress like it. You’ve changed, Hank. This glocken stuff is going to your head,” Garm said.

“And why shouldn’t he change?” Kitt asked, walking up to us naked even though this section of the ship was fully-clothed. “So,” she said, reaching out and grabbing my crotch, almost dropping me to the floor, “you want to go to my room and grind some meat?”

Kitt had a way of putting me off my game.

“Is that what you have to offer?” Garm demanded of Kitt.

“More than you got, dear. I think I had your body just after I got out of diapers. Hank, you coming?” she asked casually.

“I just got rehabbed. I can barely see either of you and my back is killing me. I want to lie down,” I said.

“Suit yourself. Look me up if you get bored. We got a month here.”

She walked away.

“You got injured?” Garm asked.

“Yeah. Doing a lousy job that didn’t pay,” I said.

“Where were you hurt?”

“My eyes mostly.”

Garm did a roundhouse kick and hit me in my left eye with the heel of her boot.





CHAPTER 20




There weren’t a lot of places to hide on a shuttle, even one as large as our tour bus.

I had a lot of reasons for my subterfuge. I was worried about Garm and Kitt. Also, every time the coaches caught me, I was rehabbed within an inch of my life. If not that, they forced me to exercise or watch training videos. Or Candar would give me some mopey and heartfelt speech about teamwork.

I was not an exercise kind of guy. I disliked it. It disliked me. We had a mutual misunderstanding. If I was going to push around heavy weights over and over again there better be some money or food involved.

Cliston was busy doing general manager stuff and couldn’t cook for me, so I was left with my formula in paste or powder form, which was absolutely horrid.

Magda also realized that slapping me didn’t hurt, so she now carried around an iron plank which used to be straight but was now bent from her smacking me repeatedly. She did it mostly when I fell asleep during training.

Recently, I had been stowing away in the cargo hold with some of the crew. They seemed pretty excited about being with one of the players and that I was just a normal guy. That is until Cliston found us and he docked them all an entire week’s wages. They hated my guts after that.

I was like a fat burglar, sneaking around the ship trying to go undetected.

And to top it all off, there wasn’t a drop of alcohol on this whole boat.

Delovoa said he couldn’t scan Gun, but he only had biological scanners which weren’t especially good on inorganic substances. If it was a toy, it was a unique one; if it was a gun, it was a gaudy one; and if it was beaming voices into my head, I should probably get rid of it.

On a lark I went to the pilot’s compartment and there was Zzzho behind the glass. He filled up the whole cockpit.

“Hey, Hank. Can’t sleep?” he buzzed.

“No, I’m just avoiding everyone.”

“Come up and keep me company,” he said.

“Are you going to zap me?” I asked. I had never been inside a Keilvin Kamigan before and it didn’t seem a great idea considering he looked like a small thunderstorm.

“Nah, I’ll scooch over,” he said.

Suddenly half the cabin, by the door, was empty and clear.

I hesitantly walked in. I didn’t die or feel my skin crackling, so that was a good sign.

“Have a seat,” Zzzho said.

I sat in the co-pilot’s seat. Or maybe it was the pilot’s seat. Or maybe it was the assistant coffee maker’s seat. How should I know? I didn’t fly ships.

“So how is your training coming?” Zzzho asked.

“Not good. I would definitely get fired if they could fire me.”

“Don’t get fired!” Zzzho said, concerned. “I think I only got this gig because of you and Mr. Cliston.”

“You made a lot of money as a cabbie, right?” I asked. “You don’t have to eat or sleep or anything.”

“You kidding? I had space jerks space-puking in my backseat, not tipping, and I spent all my time waiting around while someone looked for their luggage or kissed their mistress. Then they’d run off and not pay, knowing I couldn’t exactly chase them. No, this is the easy life right here. Pays way more.”

“Why don’t you become a trucker? Run freighters?” I asked.

“Why don’t you run freighters?” he shot back. “Those trips can take years. People go crazy in freighters. I like talking. If people weren’t such pricks, I’d love being a cabbie. So anyway, work harder on your training. I like this job.”

“I keep falling asleep during the coursework. I haven’t had a sip of alcohol in three weeks. I don’t think I’m a drunk or anything, but after a long day of boring stuff, a drink can take the edge off.”

“Hey, you want a snort?” Zzzho asked.

“Of what? I’m not really a drug guy,” I said.

“Of me,” he answered.

“That’s…I mean…what?” I stammered. I wasn’t sure if Zzzho was coming on to me or if a gas cloud could even come on to an Ontakian.

“Yeah. Keilvin Kamigans sell parts of ourselves as fuel cells. You fleshy things are all electricity.”

“No, we’re not. We’re blood and bone and muscle,” I said, thinking he might have us confused with Dredel Led.

“But you have electrical impulses and stuff. I’ve done this before. It’s just a tiny amount.”

“You did it to a Colmarian?” I asked, skeptical.

“Yeah. Sometimes people pay me for a jolt. Sometimes, when people are trying to skip out on a fare, I really jam it up there.”

“What up where?” I asked, alarmed.

“Me up their noses.”

“This doesn’t sound good.”

“No, I heard it’s great. In small doses.”

“Is it like addictive or something? What’s it do?”

“No, it’s just electrical. Like a jumpstart,” he said.

“I’m not a car.”

“Just try. You said you want a drink. Think of it like that. I’ll go easy. Just relax.”

“Don’t go poking around my lungs,” I warned.

“I won’t.”

I felt a tingle in my nose and my chest, like I had snorted some static electricity. I rubbed my face immediately and then sneezed several times.

“See? Not so bad,” Zzzho said.

I was shaking my head after sneezing when whamo! Jumpstart was right. I wasn’t high. I didn’t feel euphoric. My body wasn’t light or giddy.

I was smart!

I gazed around at all the controls and could tell what they did. Just a quick peek out the window and I knew the constellations and where we were in the galaxy. But how was that possible? I hadn’t seen any maps of this area in a century or more, and even then it was only cursory.

Looking at Zzzho, I could tell by the pattern of his electrical discharges how he operated the ship and his means of locomotion.

But I also understood…glocken.

All the plays made sense to me. Everything we were doing. And I spontaneously invented a play we had never used before.

I had to run off and tell Magda. Tell someone before I forgot.

“Thanks, Zzzho. Thanks again!”

I ran out of the cabin with the play in my mind. I was fine-tuning it when I thought of Gun. Something about how he must work.

I went to my cabin, opened my drawer where I kept the pistol, and picked him up.

“In the grand design, I suspect it doesn’t matter all that much, but you may wish to be more careful when handling electricity.”

The voice was Gun’s. I then felt my whole body go limp and I flopped to the metal floor and lapsed into unconsciousness.





CHAPTER 21




“Get up, you fat stink!” I heard Magda scream, from somewhere off in dreamland.

“I’m not fat, I’m an Ontakian,” I mumbled.

“Ontakian? He’s delusional. Is he going to be fit to play in forty-eight hours?” she asked.

“Sure, I’ve seen him survive a lot worse. Just try and make sure he doesn’t have a random drug test. Because, you know, he’ll fail,” Delovoa answered.

“Get him out on the field,” she barked, and I heard her distinctive lopsided clomping as she thundered away.

“You probably shouldn’t tell people you’re an Ontakian,” Delovoa whispered. “They aren’t the most popular species in the galaxy.”

I looked up and saw his twisted face hovering over me, plugged with metal and wires, his brain case spurting blood, his breath smelling of decay—just normal Delovoa.

“Where am I?” I asked groggily. I appeared to be lying on a table.

“This is heaven and I’m God,” Delovoa stated serenely.

“Come on, I know you won’t be in heaven. What happened?”

“Got me. You were unconscious for a week,” he said.

“What?”

“Yeah. I have a hypothesis that it was your body’s manifest hatred of physical activity. You went into a coma instead of being forced to do cardio and weight training. Like a defense mechanism.”

“I was unconscious for a week?”

“Yeah, and you apparently seem to be hard of hearing,” he said, annoyed.

I tried to swing my legs around and almost threw up.

“Easy, champ,” Delovoa cautioned. “I pumped you full of Usk adrenaline to try and wake you up, but you have two whole days to get in shape.”

“I have a play! A strategy. I remember it from snorting…well, from before the accident.”

“You can tell Magda. You’re going to be playing 7-lane.”

“Seven? I’m not 8-lane defense? Is Grah playing?”

“No, you’re still on 8-lane defense. You’re going to be 7-lane offense, too. Tobo is missing.”



No!

7-lane was a thousand-pound token! I only weighed 2,500 pounds…or so, how could I be expected to run with something that heavy? How could I be expected to play both offense and defense? I didn’t have the stamina.

I hurried through the halls, running into the corners because of whatever amphetamine Delovoa had dripped into my feeding tubes.

I almost tripped over Candar. Naked, glistening Candar.

“Hank! Good to see you up. I need to go over some plays with you,” he said.

“Candar, fantastic! I have a play. But I shouldn’t be offense. Hey, uh, man. You got a lump of wax or something on your privates,” I said.

It was hard not to look down. You tried not to, but still.

“Oh,” he said, and casually reached down and smeared it around his groin and thighs. He actually did walk around greased up. I had only been joking about it.

“We need you on 7-lane,” he continued, as if he hadn’t just fondled himself in front of me. “There’s no one else.”

“Where’s Tobo? My play needs him,” I asked desperately.

“We don’t know. The ship landed and within a few days he was gone. No teles. Left his things. No sign of him or his bodyguards.”

“Why does everyone have bodyguards except me?” I asked, irritated.

“You don’t have bodyguards?”

“No.”

“Talk to Magda or the general manager.”

“Magda won’t give me any and Cliston will probably make me pay for them—and take 15%.”

“We need to study plays. With all your absences, you missed most of our tactics sessions.”

“I was unconscious!”

“I don’t mean just this week. You also slept during most of the strategy meetings on Belvaille.”

“It’s important to be rested,” I explained.

“By the way, our sports cards came.”

He handed me a small deck of cards. They were electronic portraits with a set of stats.

I leafed through to find mine. It said “Honk ‘Stank Delicious’” and had a photo of me in mid-yell as I got hit in the stomach by something or other. The rest of the card was blank.

“Where are my stats?” I asked.

“Well, you don’t actually do anything that is tracked.”

“They spelled my name wrong. And what’s ‘Stank Delicious’ mean?” I asked.

“I think they hired the cheapest contractor to make the cards. They either didn’t understand slang or, I don’t know, maybe they understand it more than I do. Almost everyone has a nickname,” Candar said.

He was right. Garm’s nickname was “Footy Lovedove,” which was almost as ridiculous as mine. Candar’s name was misspelled too, it was “Dandor,” and his nickname was “Pinker Middleface,” which actually seemed to fit him, though I couldn’t say why. Grah was simply Grah, and they didn’t give him a nickname. Kitt was “Kittle” and her nickname was “Boomy Boom Boomy.”

“Did children write these?” I asked.

“I’m not sure,” he said. “I wish they had gotten my name right. I changed it once already for the team.”

“What was your name before you started playing glocken?” I asked, looking at the rest of the cards.

“Ca-douer mah-nostoshian,” he said.

“Not Pinker Middleface?”





CHAPTER 22




I read somewhere that the average career of a Super Class glocken player lasted ten games.

Games. Not seasons.

So general managers like Cliston spent inordinate amounts of time looking through submissions and profiles trying to find our replacements. I knew for a fact that while we were here on this ass-pit of a planet, Mapposh 48, there were two dozen people training at our facility back on Belvaille. They were being put to the test and the results would be evaluated for that inevitable moment when the current members of the Belvaille Glocken Team broke down or died.

“His left ankle is sprained, he’s got a tear in his upper right shoulder, his hip is out of alignment, and he’s probably suffered at least two concussions,” Delovoa said of me on the sideline.

“He’s fine,” Magda waved.

The lucky coin I had swiped from Ulteem’s flunky wasn’t doing me any good. I spit on it and threw it in the trash just in case it was bad luck. I was willing to try anything at this point.

It was hour seven of a marathon game against the Trapezoid Regunditators.

I had not scored a point on offense. I had not even left the line of scrimmage. My defensive counterpart was a brawler with a simple strategy. As soon as the lights flared, he jumped about twenty feet in the air and came down on me with his 1,500 pounds.

There wasn’t much I could do. I had to be on the line. I had to be holding the token. I simply turned this way and that way to try and distribute the blows and last as long as possible.

On defense, I was doing a little better. I had stopped their 8-lane from moving. They had a relatively little guy. He was about four feet tall, but 6,000 pounds. I would just climb on his back and hold on. Even without me on his shoulders, he could barely move that 8-lane token.

The score was three points up for the Trapezoids and had fluctuated only slightly the whole game. One point them, two points us. Back and forth.

The other players on my team were in bad shape too, but not as bad as me.

Magda approached, pushed Delovoa out of the way, and whispered what I needed to do. She demonstrated with her stunty little limbs what she was talking about.

“Is that legal?” I asked her, whispering back.

“Let the lawyers worry about the law. And don’t tell Candar about this,” she warned.

I finished getting treated, a splint on my leg, hot salve on my shoulder, and lots and lots of drugs.

I limped out onto the field to take up my token on offense. I hunched down and hefted it, positioning my legs like Magda said.

The crummy little 7-lane was thirty feet away, preparing for his airborne bombing run.

The lights blinked, the horns blared, and I dropped the token. I arched my back, looked up, and waited.

The Trapezoid 7-lane jumped, his massive legs propelling him high into the sky. But once he was in flight, he was just a projectile. He couldn’t turn or adjust his trajectory in any way. I bent over and compressed my legs.

As the defender came down, I lifted my arms, straightened my legs and back.

My forearms connected with his chin, my upward force added to his downward force, and I practically took off his head. I heard a crack and wasn’t sure if it was his protective gear or bones.

His momentum carried him bodily into me and I grasped his neck like a vise, trying to hold him upright even though he was attempting to fall to the ground.

Then with my right leg, I stepped hard into his shin and twisted with my arms. My weight easily broke his femur. I had directly, and maliciously attacked a defender, causing serious physical damage, with no attempt at scoring or even touching a token.

The ref nearest me signaled all kinds of penalties. I was blanketed with multi-colored flags.

I feigned ignorance and innocence in equal measures.

“Overzealous objections!” I yelled.

“Shut up,” the ref replied.

We were assessed a sixteen-point fine for my illegal play. Pretty huge.

Candar came over after the offense was done and screamed at me.

“What do you think you’re doing? That isn’t how we play!” He said. “Referee, I can assure you that wasn’t the play I called.”

The ref didn’t care.

Magda had told me to do all of it. Demanded. I had taken out their 7-lane, bought us another rest break, and now the Trapezoid Regunditators were in a jam. They didn’t have another super-heavy substitute and Magda knew it. That’s why she called the play.

The Regunditators only had one guy who could stop Grah and that was most important. So they had two underweight guys in front of me and Bley-ore.

Magda, when we were on the sidelines again, told Candar that my actions were deplorable and I would be held accountable. However, she said we were going with my trick play when we were back on offense.

No one said it outright, but I could sense the whole team was happy I had pounded that guy. Everyone except Candar.

We held the Trapezoids on defense the next play. We had too much weight on them. We switched positions on defense. Grah was covering 8-lane and I was covering 7. We now outweighed them so much we could simply walk forward and tackle them with ease.

That poor four-foot, 6,000-pound 8-lane had to face off against a ten-foot-tall, 15,000-pound slab of rock.

Their replacement 7-lane was about a third of my weight, being an upgraded 6-lane.

When it was our turn for offense, Candar reluctantly signaled for the play that I had dreamt up after sniffing Zzzho.

I immediately dropped my token and went behind the line of scrimmage. Garm ran over to me as we went to the 4-lane. Kitt and Candar blocked for us.

“If you screw this up, I’ll kill you,” Garm said.

“If I screw this up, you’ll be dead,” I replied.

Garm squatted down on Kitt’s 40-pound token and held on to the strap as hard as she could. I picked the token up by the opposite handle. I then tip, tap, toe, spun, and threw Garm and the token almost forty-five feet, over the extremely surprised opposing team. I didn’t get it to land where I wanted, but accuracy didn’t matter, only distance.

Garm cartwheeled away from the token in the air, landing gracefully like the expert gymnast she was.

The token was a bit heavy for her, but she managed to scoop it up and run the short distance to the end zone and score. She was completely unopposed.

When I concocted this play, I had expected Tobo to throw the token, since he was the better Twist, but he was missing. However, it was Garm who really made the play work. No one else was good enough, and light enough, to actually be hurled and not end up a bloody mess. She made it look like she was born to do it.

We repeated this several times until the defense played shallow, backing up far enough that some of our slower players, such as me, could get enough room that we had a real chance of scoring and bringing in the huge points from the top four positions.

It completely shattered their game.

In five possession changes, we were up by twenty-three with no end in sight.

The opposing coach signaled he wanted to quit and Magda accepted.

Victory was ours.

“Now let’s get the hell out of here before a mob of fans comes to kill me for purposely breaking that guy’s leg,” I said.





CHAPTER 23




The next day we were still in the hotel on Mapposh 48, waiting to settle up the purse from the game.

I got a tongue-lashing from Candar for my illegal move. He said I had disgraced myself, disgraced the team, disgraced Belvaille, and disgraced the glocken holy spirits. I was just a big pile of disgrace.

Magda Strongarm gave me a tongue-lashing but only in front of Candar. I felt I had turned a bit of a corner with her. She didn’t exactly give me a sloppy wet kiss or anything, but she didn’t hit me with her iron bar.

“You need to stop this,” Cliston said.

“Stop what?” I asked, seated on the floor of his hotel room.

“You were hired to make sure no players were abducted. The team had a significant investment in Tobo and I estimated we had eight to twelve more games out of him.”

“What are you worried about? You get money from my contract—oh, are you talking to me as general manager or my butler or what?”

“General manager.”

“But I don’t work for you as a Factotum, I work for Hobb,” I said.

“You have a contract with Procon Hobb to assist this team in its operations. You let a player vanish right under your nose.”

“I was unconscious!” I said.

“He’s still gone and you have no leads. The amount of money this team loses every time a player goes missing is astronomical.”

“Yeah, but I replaced him. Astronomical? Hey! I want a raise.”

Cliston leaned back a bit as if he was surprised.

“You’ll need to talk to your agent about that. I can’t negotiate directly with talent.”

“You’re my agent!” I yelled.

“Do you want a raise?” he asked.

“I just said I did.”

“I think it’s a good time, too. They really have no alternatives. I’ll see what I can do. I got you a 35% raise, a food cost fund, wardrobe fund, disability insurance, reassigned Delovoa as your personal physician, and got you a new limo—one of Procon Hobb’s, it will need some refitting, but it’s quite spacious. On the downside, you need to go to one more practice per week, attend anger management courses, put out a public statement saying you regret your actions in last night’s game, and you have to work ‘harder’ on loss prevention of players. Though honestly, they can’t enforce that last one except through Procon Hobb.”

“Wait, did you do all that with yourself just now?” I asked.

“Yes. It’s a good deal. I recommend you take it,” my sports agent said.

“Okay, I guess.”

“We aren’t leaving the planet for a week. I have to check on some prospects here and work out the payment split with the other team. In the meantime, you need to find out what happened to Tobo so it doesn’t happen again,” Cliston told me.

“You just said only Hobb could enforce that!”

“I said no such thing. And the fact we’re looking at prospects is between you and me. Don’t tell any of the players.”

“I am a player,” I said, annoyed. “I’m now 7- and 8-lane.”

“I’m speaking to Factotum Hank,” the general manager said.

“I can’t go nosing around in the streets. I did a little research on this dirtball of a world and it only has one Super Class team. We just beat that team because I did an illegal play that everyone saw. If I step outside, they’ll rip me apart.”

“I can make you a disguise, sir,” Cliston said.

I squinted.

“That’s my butler talking, right?”

“Yes, sir. And congratulations on your raise.”



Cliston’s idea of a disguise was two eye-patches, a metal skullcap, diaphanous flowing robes, and a fake, multicolored beard.

I could see out of the eye-patches, one was prismed glass and the other had tiny holes. At least I could see enough to know I looked incredibly silly.

I took a shotgun with me. The maybe-talking Gun was sitting in my bathroom, on the sink, wrapped in a towel.

I wasn’t sure what had knocked me out. Was it inhaling Zzzho? Was it Gun? Was it the combination? I asked Delovoa and he said that was amazing—and immediately left to snort our bus driver.

This planet sucked.

It really showed me how great Belvaille was and how bad the civil war had been to the rest of the galaxy. When I did some tele research on Mapposh 48 I found its major export was sand.

They had a huge variety of sand here and everyone worked in the sand industry. You’d think it wouldn’t be worthwhile to transport something that heavy, but it was cheaper than transporting the rocks and smashing them all up to sand. It wasn’t exactly a precious commodity, however.

The hotel we were staying at was massively fortified. Glocken was all this stupid city had and if our team got murdered, no one was ever going to come here again. People couldn’t even enter the same street as our hotel.

But I walked out the front door and left all the security behind with the nebulous goal of looking for a kidnapped Tobo. Was I supposed to go asking around bars? Maybe pawn shops?

There was trash everywhere in the city. The buildings were ruined. It just looked like everything was on a long, slow decline. All they had was a downtown and that glocken arena.

What if Tobo simply quit? I got offered hundreds of millions to throw a game. Tobo leaving could easily have been worth that. I didn’t see anything more nefarious in all this than some very capable gangs stepping up to make money.

It was bad for glocken. But there was nothing in the rules against bribery strictly speaking. Off the field you could do anything you could get away with. Then again, glocken fans had a long history of killing people who tried to get away with stuff, which ended up working a whole lot better than rules, anyway.

After walking around for a while, I realized my original assessment of Mapposh 48 and its capital city were unkind. I had mostly gone by tele articles I read and peering out the hotel windows.

Down at street level things were pretty vibrant. Lots of stores. Lots and lots of people. It seemed orderly but not restrictive, like the space station Belvaille back when it was in Ginland. A bit outlaw and backwater but not embarrassed by those facts.

I reached the heart of downtown and it was a true metropolis.

Belvaille was now dominated by massive buildings owned by nobles and other ultra-wealthy. But here were utilitarian buildings. And they weren’t constrained by the limits of being on a space station. The streets were wide. The buildings towering. There was just…stuff everywhere.

You didn’t have stuff on Belvaille. There was no room to leave stuff sitting around. Every square inch of space was used. Here they could have vacant lots and construction cranes just lounging around like there was no hurry.

I couldn’t understand how so many people were here, though. It seemed like there was a person every half-step. They couldn’t all be working on sand. They looked like normal folks.

Then I realized it was for the game. They had come from elsewhere on the planet, or System, or adjoining Systems, to watch my stupid glocken game! How much money was pumped into this economy from our one game?

No wonder gangs wanted in on it. No wonder Tobo was gone. Someone who wanted to fix a game could easily pay him off. And it was a big galaxy to hide in.

I must have entered the exact center of the city when I looked up to see a tele screen a hundred feet tall. There were a bunch of symbols looping on the bottom and sides that I didn’t understand, maybe the prices of various sands, but in the center was the glocken game from last night.

Specifically, my illegal play. It looped over and over from different angles.

It was weird seeing me up there that big. I looked like a Therezian. And it was really obvious I had cheated.

I stood gazing at it and then my brain kind of flipped. I guess because I was looking at myself. Not at myself in the game, but standing here right now.

I raised my hand and the hand on the tele screen raised. I turned my head to the right and the screen-me turned to the left. I touched my chin, complete with fake beard, and the screen version of me did as well.

“Hey, it’s Hank the glocken player,” someone said. The way they said it was completely artificial, like they weren’t surprised at all.

It was Xandale! He was standing about twenty feet away smiling at me with his giant teeth. He gave me a tiny salute.

A guy came up behind me, looking from the screen to my face and back. Then another person came up on the other side.

It was dawning on the tens of thousands of people who happened to be milling around, that the villain of last night’s game was standing amongst them.





CHAPTER 24




I was neither fast nor graceful.

Especially when I was wearing two eyepatches, had my sprained ankle in a cast, my hip in a horizontal traction brace, and I was wearing about twenty different flowing robes all layered and twisted about each other.

As I plowed through the angry mob downtown, trying to escape, no one was saying, “Now there goes a fast and graceful guy.”

But plow I did.

Crippled or not, I was still a Super Class glocken player. While these diehard fans expressed their very deep desires to see me slaughtered, they quickly learned the difference between being a fan of glocken and an actual player of glocken.

They were little more than speed bumps as I charged through them.

As I tried to remember my way back to the hotel, I was dragging at least three people who were holding on to my clothes, my legs, and one was wrapped around my head somehow.

To my credit, I wasn’t trying to hurt anyone, but they were sure as hell trying to hurt me.

Magda was right, though, I couldn’t run for long. I didn’t have the endurance. Especially since I was likely running in circles. It’s not like I could stop and ask for directions.

I needed someplace where I could put my back against the wall and try and sort this out.

“Heads up!” A gruff, male voice yelled.

Like an idiot, I looked up.

Poof!

I was blinded by a tremendous flash of light. Afterwards, I felt a powerful hand on my arm, not like the fingers of the disgruntled fans that had been clutching at me, but a hearty grip that even I could appreciate.

“Follow me,” the gruff voice said.

It didn’t say it with malice. It said it with urgency. And urgency was miles better than anything I’d heard since my image was broadcast on that big tele screen.

Blind, I stumbled after the pulling voice.

I felt myself tripping over and through people, but they were limp and powerless. Everyone was blinded, at least for the moment.

My vision returned and after a while we were no longer running over pedestrians but were splashing along an alley.

Splashing.

I think other than vomit, this was the first time I had ever seen liquid on pavement. I was so used to life on a space station that I was momentarily struck by this small detail even as my life was in jeopardy.

My guide was dressed in a bulky jacket and had a breathing apparatus that covered his entire face.

“Hey, you’re that guy,” I said. It was the janitor from the training facility some months ago.

“Let’s try here,” he said, pulling me to a door at random.

It was a big steel door with a big steel lock. He put his shoulder into it and the door surprisingly broke open.

Inside it was dark. From what I could see it appeared to be a storage room of some sort.

He replaced the door and turned on his tele to shed some light.

“Quick, how much cash do you have on you?” he asked.

“I…like a few thousand credits I think,” I said, rummaging through my clothes.

“That’s it? A big glocken player like you?”

“I don’t carry a lot. My butler has the rest,” I said, giving him the stack of plastic bills. I assumed it was going to help me get out of this jam.

“You have a butler?” he asked, his voice still urgent as he counted the money.

“So, where are we?” I asked, killing the silence as he counted.

“Mapposh 48,” he said, without looking up.

“I know what planet I’m on,” I said.

“Gyor-bah City,” he added.

“I know that,” I added, though I hadn’t actually known the name of the city. “How do we get out of here? What do you need the money for?”

“I owe some people,” he said, with the same urgency. “We can’t talk here, but I have a lot to tell you.”

“Who are you?”

He reached up and unfastened his mask, which was held tight with several clasps and made a suction noise. When it was off, he stared at me.

“Who do I look like?” he asked.

He was pale, probably from wearing that mask, had strong features, looked middle aged, needed a shave, and I could tell he was a muscular guy just from his face.

I really had no idea.

“Tobo?” I asked, though he looked nothing at all like him.

“What? No. Why would you say that? Tobo has one arm,” he replied, raising his two arms, annoyed.

I shrugged.

“Maybe we should just get back to the hotel and talk there,” I offered.

“I’m your uncle,” he said.

If I had been given infinite guesses, I would not have come up with that. I wasn’t so much surprised as irritated he would think I could possibly guess that. I didn’t really know my parents, let alone whether or not I had an uncle, and whether or not he was alive and hanging out on Mapposh 48 wearing a mask.

“Hi,” I said, my voice tight.

“You don’t recognize me?” he asked, surprised.

“How would I recognize you? Have I ever met you?”

“When you were a baby. But I just meant our faces are similar. Right? My nose has been broken more I think. But our chins are almost the same.”

“I was supposed to know you’re my never-before-met uncle because you have an almost similar chin?” I asked.

Man, this sucked. Everyone in my family was stupid.

“Yeah, let’s get back to your hotel,” he said, urgent again. He began refastening his mask. “You know this air is toxic to you.”

“And I assume you get imported air from Ontakian?” I asked.

“Ontak. No, our planet is destroyed. But it’s not a very difficult mixture. The key is a little fluorine. It would kill a Colmarian in a few huffs, but it keeps us nice and ventilated. Want to try it?” he asked.

I was still not completely comfortable with the idea of being an Ontakian. I was even less comfortable with sucking down the poisonous air of a random stranger who may or may not be a relative.

“Not now, I’m good. Hey, not to be rude or anything, but how do I know you’re my uncle?”

“Well, I know your name isn’t really Hank.”

“What is it then?” I challenged. He was right, I had changed my name long ago.

“I don’t remember,” he said.

“How do you not remember? And how do you know it’s not Hank?”

“I only met you when you were a baby, it’s not like we hung out. ‘Hank’? That’s some Colmarian crap. Sounds like a sneeze,” he said.

“What’s your name?” I asked.

“IG12822,” he said.

“What was my father’s name, then?”

“IG12821, we were brothers.”

“That wasn’t his name,” I said. “What was my mom’s name, 12820?” I asked skeptically.

“No, her name was MAC1791. And your father changed his name to hide his identity.”

I slowly took out my tele and wrote down those numbers. It sounded far-fetched, but I thought I should remember my parent’s names if he was legit.

“Are my parents still alive?” I asked.

“Nope. Dead, like most Ontakians.”

I had a lot of questions but my uncle sighed and cut me off.

“So most people wanted to fight the Colmarians when they came ‘asking’ us to join the Confederation. We didn’t want to be under another empire ever again. I knew it was a doomed fight. Your father knew. Sooner or later that many Systems were going to win against our small world, even if the Confederation was ass-backwards. However, there was a standing agreement that anyone who wanted to leave Ontak could do so if they joined the Colmarian Navy. Your father had a new son and I wanted to live. So we headed for the nearest ship and surrendered.”

“What about my mother?” I asked.

“She stayed and fought. Ontakians can be pretty stubborn,” he said.

“I know,” I answered, thinking back to my few encounters with them.

“Your father told me he was going to let you grow up as a Colmarian. He even figured that with enough time, bureaucratic slip-ups, and bribes, they wouldn’t even know you were an Ontakian and would think you were just a weird mutant,” he said.

“Yeah,” I answered, shocked. “They did. They ran all kinds of tests on me trying to rate my mutant level. They never found out I was an Ontakian and not a mutant.”

“Oh, you’re a mutant,” he said. “Just an Ontakian one.”





CHAPTER 25




I was still digesting the news I was an Ontakian mutant when my uncle began rearranging my outfit in an attempt to make me less conspicuous.

“You know, I lost a lot of money on you,” he said absently.

“When I was a baby?” I asked, confused.

“No, no. Last night on the game. Who taught you to throw players?” he asked.

“You bet against me?”

“Not against you, specifically. You were down a man and I knew the odds were dropping and I had to lock in the bet early. Seemed a sure thing.”

He had taken off most of my robes and was turning them inside-out and wrapping them around me like a body turban. Cliston—the butler, Cliston—would be horrified. The other Clistons probably wouldn’t care.

“Is that why you need money? To cover your gambling loss?”

“I just owe people. We’ll talk on that later. We need to get you to safety. You ready?” he asked.

He had removed my eye-patches, skullcap, fake beard, and basically covered me head-to-toe.

“I guess,” I said, and I took out my shotgun.

“Put that away. If you shoot someone they’ll investigate and make you stay. You aren’t a Factotum here, you’re a Super Class cheat.”

“Magda told me to,” I blurted.

“Well, it worked. She’s a great coach. I was dumb to bet against her. But the odds were there,” he lamented. “Let’s go.”

We exited our hide-out and it was dark. Really dark. It never got this dark on Belvaille. I kept blinking my eyes and rubbing my face because I assumed something was blocking my vision. I hadn’t been on a real planet that orbited a star in hundreds of years, supposedly when my uncle was nearby, forgetting my name.

I lurched around the street with my arms outstretched.

We finally reached some roads that had half-decent street lamps, but they were still nothing compared to Belvaille’s latticework. They were like big flashlights and made the area seem creepy and dangerous.

Using our teles, we plotted a few different routes to the hotel, wanting to have multiple options in case we ran into trouble.

We passed some pedestrians and a few cars, but for the most part the city had gone quiet. Such a contrast from just a while ago when the streets were teeming with mobs thirsting for my blood. No one seemed to recognize me.

In fact, no one gave two large, swaddled and masked men a second glance. We probably looked fairly intimidating in these dark streets.

We were only a block away from the main road to the hotel when we saw them: a group of about fifty guys, clearly agitated, clearly drunk.

“You got any more of those flash bombs?” I asked.

“No. Do you think you can run through?”

“I’m not sure, you took off my hip brace. If it spasms, I’m going down.”

“It was too bulky and obvious. I’m trying to make you look like a Galdo Trader, and they don’t wear hi-tech sports gear,” he said.

The men were starting to look our way and talk.

“Well, come on,” he said.

If a fight started, I didn’t think the military around the hotel would help. They wouldn’t know who was who. We had to get past this group.

My uncle walked forward confidently. I limped forward less confidently.

The men were turning to us as a whole and there was some shouting and questions and challenges.

“I’m going to eat you alive and crap out your souls!” My uncle yelled.

That wasn’t a bad catchphrase. Not as good as my, “Eat suck, suckface,” but it was okay. I would probably change it to, “I’m going to eat you alive and crap out your souls and then eat up your souls and crap those out…again.” No, that didn’t work, it was too long. I was just hungry, so I was thinking about eating stuff.

My uncle lifted something from inside his coat and held it aloft with his right arm.

Its design resembled a torch, but metal, and clearly electronic.

It then burst into a kind of light. Not a red or blue or green, but the opposite. It was bright but it turned the entire street negative. I could see only blacks and purples and dim whites! Everything was in high detail and contrast, but devoid of color.

There was also a sound and pressure. It hit my eyes like I had been dropped at the bottom of an ocean. It felt like I was completely cloaked in lead.

I lifted my arm and was almost surprised it came up with no effort. I felt like I should be weighted down. I looked at my hand and it was purple and black with white highlights.

After a second or two, the pressure thumped ominously and its strength increased.

It was all so disorienting.

My uncle stood there with his torch aloft and the tip of it was pure white. The whitest thing I had ever seen. It was like a hole in the universe and you could push your hand straight through into another reality.

The mob was having none of this and sobered up rather quickly. They stumbled around because, as I learned when I took a few steps, you had almost no sensation in your body because of the pressure. You had to watch where you stepped instead of feel. And of course our vision was twisted.

People were falling over themselves and clunk-walking around to try and get away.

The pressure kept ratcheting up and I tried to put my hand on my uncle’s shoulder. Not only to remind him I was here, but to steady myself. I missed, because my depth-perception was off and I couldn’t quite feel my shoulder and arm working like usual.

When most of the non-passed-out mob had successfully left the road, my uncle turned off the device.

Immediately my vision was restored and the pressure went away.

“Was that…was that an Ontakian plasma weapon?” I asked.

“Nah. I think it’s a wrench. For plumbing. Or gardening. Or something for zoos. I don’t know, really. Let’s go.”





CHAPTER 26




The security guards and hotel staff were not happy to see me after I had cheated their home team, but they didn’t stop us.

In my room we finally relaxed.

My uncle began helping himself to drinks from the cooler.

“Now that we’re okay, what other proof do you have you’re actually my uncle? I remember my father. I remember him working for the Colmarian Navy. Just like all my relatives going back forever. That’s why I fled to Belvaille in the first place, so I wouldn’t have to do that,” I said.

This had been bothering me. Chin or not, Ontakian plasma shovel or not, catchphrase or not, he could simply be a good liar. It didn’t match any of the information I had.

“I tracked you down to Ginland and sent you your father’s uniform and a plasma pistol,” he said casually.

Almost no one knew about that plasma pistol! No one alive. That alone was a pretty big credential.

“Why didn’t you tell me I was an Ontakian when you sent them?” I asked.

“What good would that do you? I was using the Colmarian mail system. I didn’t know if it would even reach you or if anyone would read it. I don’t go around bragging I’m an Ontakian and I don’t recommend you do either. Of all the empires the Colmarian Confederation battled, the Ontakians inflicted some of the most damage and never surrendered. The Colmarians are no friends of our people. And the feeling is more than mutual.”

“Yeah, I’ve met some fairly agitated Ontakians. But you could have told me so much more, so long ago,” I complained.

“Look, you’re alive. I’m alive. That’s more than can be said for 99% of the Ontakians, including your parents. What you should think about is that your father might have died killing your mother so you could grow up as a Colmarian. Not whether your uncle did this or didn’t do that.”

Bam! That hit me hard.

“He was fighting in the war against the Ontakians?” I asked.

“Did you think the Navy was going to let Ontakians join up and become dance instructors?”

“Why would my mother fight? Why didn’t she just leave like my father?” I asked.

“Like I said, most Ontakians were never going to submit. It’s what broke us free of the Rettosians.”

“Rettosians? What do you mean?”

“You kidding?” he asked.

“No.”

“I guess they didn’t teach you this in Colmarian school. We Ontakians were created by the Rettosians. Genetically crafted. We were their slaves. We worked for them, fought for them, invented for them. They made us too good and when we realized it, we rebelled.”

“I never liked Rettosians,” I said. “I just killed one a month or so ago.”

“Good,” he said, finishing the last of the booze in the entire suite.

“You said I’m a mutant. What can I do?”

“Don’t you know?” he asked.

“I mean, maybe. I don’t get to compare myself to average Ontakians all that much.”

“No one can heal like you do. That’s not normal. Ontakians are strong. We’re resilient, but we can’t knit together muscles and organs like you. Also, you’re much, much heavier than a normal Ontakian.”

“I thought that was because I wasn’t eating and drinking right?” I said.

“I don’t know about that, but there’s no other Ontakian who could play 8-lane in Super Class without getting flattened in the first play. And I read about you fighting a Therezian!”

“It wasn’t a fight, he just stepped on me,” I said.

“The fact you’re still alive proves that’s a mutation.”

“I thought only Colmarians were mutants,” I said.

“They just figured out how to do it. Then they forced it on their population because they were crazy. But any species can mutate. I’ve seen other Ontakian mutants and even Rettosian mutants. It’s just really rare.”

“Why didn’t you come to me earlier? I didn’t know any of this,” I grumbled.

“I have my own life, you know,” he said. “I got to use the head.” He walked off to the bathroom.

I stood there scratching my Ontakian-mutant, fake-Colmarian head.

He came out a few minutes later holding a towel.

“Hey, lift that bed,” I said.

He put the towel on the desk. It was wrapped around Gun.

“That’s a Rettosian pistol,” he said.

“I know. Lift the bed,” I pointed.

He sighed.

He bent over, put his arms wide, and took hold of the bed. He lifted with his knees and pulled together with his arms and the king-sized bed rose and splintered like it was a toy model.

“Where did you get that pistol?” he asked.

“That Rettosian I killed. Why?”

“Those things are worth a lot. More than a plasma weapon. It’s only a pistol, but they can do a lot of harm. Does it work?” he asked.

“It shot me in the eyes. And it talked to me.”

“Shot you in the eyes and you wonder how you’re a mutant? What did it say?”

“It seemed like it had a personality. But I don’t know. It didn’t talk much and it might have knocked me unconscious for a week. I don’t want to mess with it.”

“I can try and sell it if you want,” he said. “Split it 50/50.”

“I…I think I’m okay for now. I got a guy who can look at it. How do you know what they can do?”

“Rettosians used to have the best technology. Those guns killed a lot of Ontakians during our rebellion,” he said.

“What happened to the Rettosians? I heard they used to be really important but I don’t know much about it.”

“Rettosians were second only to the Boranjame at one point. Then they hit the Age of Decadence. It was a philosophical movement which caused them to give up nearly all pursuits that had a productive outcome. They relied on slaves and servants until their empire shrank. That was when the Ontakians rebelled. They didn’t always have that waterfall look either, they mutated themselves. So, hey, can I borrow some money?” he asked.

“More than what I just gave you?”

“Well, yeah,” he answered.



I didn’t like lending people money. Because I didn’t like trying to collect. Threatening to break the kneecaps of your friends was never fun. But lending to family was even weirder—especially since I thought all my family was dead and I still wasn’t sure if this guy was my uncle.

“Family” was a completely new concept to me.

I went to Cliston to see how much money I had in reserves. Cliston wanted to get payment terms and interest rates from my uncle but I quashed all that.

My uncle asked if I could swing thirty million! I said I could give him ten.

He begrudgingly took the vast sum of money, which was transferred to an anonymous bank account.

Back in my room he scooped up the restocked liquor from my cabinet.

“You sure you don’t want me to sell the gun?” he asked.

“Yeah. So tell me what my parents were like?” I asked.

“My brother was a prick. Your mother I didn’t know well. We weren’t very close. So look, thanks for the money. I need to be heading out. Got a few people I need to see and more than a few people I need to avoid,” he said, heading to the door.

“What? You just got here! I have a ton of questions!”

“I’ll be in touch. You’re easy to find. Here. Get this analyzed and start breathing that,” he said, and he handed me a small tank of gas. “I’m guessing your mutation takes care of most of it, but it still can’t be good to breathe this air.”

“What’s your tele at least?” I asked.

“This is a disposable. They can track and monitor those teles, you know,” he said. “Good luck, ‘Hank.’ You turned out great. My brother would probably be proud.”

My uncle opened the door and walked out into the hallway.





CHAPTER 27




I stood there trying to process everything that just happened.

My entire history had been rewritten in like three hours. Almost seven hundred years of hard-living had been turned on its head.

Had I been conned?

I looked at my tele.

IG12821, IG12822, and MAC1791. It was a cute family tree.

I read over them a dozen times trying to see if there was some code. Like if I rearranged the letters it would be a joke thanking me for the money.

He knew about my plasma gun and my father’s clothes. I don’t know if I told anyone about that. He knew I was an Ontakian. He was pretty strong. He had an Ontakian device. And his chin did look a bit like mine.

Mother Madchay’s Molars, why couldn’t he have told me more?

I went to use the bathroom and noticed my uncle didn’t flush. His urine was blue.

My pee wasn’t blue.

I suddenly remembered that Xandale had been here. He had been the one who fingered me in the city square. There was no reason he should be on this planet, which was far removed from Belvaille and anything of value that wasn’t sand.

I wondered if my “uncle” could have been one of Xandale’s rent-a-Factotums. Xandale might have been able to research enough on me to pull off that trick and get me to pay him ten million credits. But as much as it was, it probably wasn’t a lot of cash for Xandale considering all the jobs he got. He had to be on the planet for other reasons.

You know, Xandale’s Univox Factotal would be the perfect organization to kidnap glocken players like Tobo. He had the manpower, the weaponry, and ability to move around in any circles. But what the hell could Xandale get out of it? I didn’t think of him as much of an abductor. The risks were awful high for that kind of work, and Xandale was paranoid about his reputation. The reasons I wouldn’t throw a game were the same ones I had a tough time seeing Xandale be a kidnapper—if he got found out, there were a few million sports fans who would be willing to murder him.

Throwing caution to the wind, I walked to the desk and picked up Gun, bracing myself for another trip to Unconscious Land.

Nothing happened.

“So. Are you a Rettosian gun?” I asked.

“What’s a Rettosian gun?” Gun answered.

“Who made you?”

“I was not around to witness my own creation.”

“But you were with that Rettosian. The one I hit with a trashcan.”

“I don’t understand any of that.”

“So you’re a Rettosian gun?” I tried to confirm.

“I have no idea what that is. I suppose I’m a gun, though it seems a rather limiting definition.”

“Do you know what those guys were trying to do with the skin?”

“Almost none of what you just said makes sense to me,” Gun answered.

“Did they mention a deal? Or Hank?” I asked.

“I don’t pay much attention to people talking. All of that is background noise and rather confusing to me.”

“Did you electrocute me? Knock me unconscious?” I asked.

“Not that I’m aware of. But I’m not sure what my awareness really is. I could be dreaming this. If I can dream. Which I’m not certain about.”

“I was unconscious for a week,” I grumbled.

“How do you know you still aren’t?”

“How did you shoot me in the eyes? Multiple times! Is that Rettosian a good shot?”

“I shot you. As for how, I can’t say.”

“Could you…could you shoot me in the eye now?” I asked a little uneasily.

“I suppose if I could see you. I can’t see you.”

I was holding Gun in my hand so I guessed he could only see what was down the barrel—if he was telling the truth.

“Okay. So, how old are you?” I asked.

“I don’t know. How old are you?”

“Maybe five hundred years? Six hundred? Something like that.”

“What’s a year?”





CHAPTER 28




“I’m pretty sure Tobo’s disappearance was gambling related,” I said to Cliston.

“Why would you believe that?” he asked.

We were sitting in my kitchen back on Belvaille. There had been some stink about letting us, specifically me, leave the planet after the game, but they didn’t have any legal grounds to detain us.

I was still nursing my injuries and currently drinking a cup of coffee after my breakfast. Outer space sucked. I was glad to be home.

“Well, I was offered a lot of money to throw a game. Hundreds of millions. From Ulteem. I figured if he offered me, he could have offered Tobo,” I said.

“And Yorsh and Porj?” Cliston asked.

“Sure. All the guys who are missing. If I took that money, I would have to vanish quick. Leaving my dirty underwear behind would be easy. The more things I left, the more it would look like a kidnapping or murder. That way people wouldn’t try and find me. Family…well, I guess you could buy a new one with that much money,” I said.

“Why didn’t you tell me this? We could have taken that deal,” Cliston said.

“What? I thought I was supposed to find the missing players.”

“I’m talking as your sports agent now. How much was it exactly? Do you think you could go back?”

“No. I don’t think so. I do want to point out an alternate theory. I saw Xandale on Mapposh 48. If it was a kidnapping, his army of Factotums could have done it. But I wouldn’t take that contract and I can’t imagine Xandale taking it either, it’s too dangerous. Wait. Should I be talking to you about this? I work for Procon Hobb when it comes to my Factotum duties.”

“He has turned it over to me. He can’t be supervising one agent directly. He has a vast empire.”

“Who said you could take another job? You’re already a general manager and butler and sports agent. I can’t keep you all straight as it is,” I complained.

“Managing your Factotum duties is under the jurisdiction of general manager. But how do I know you aren’t just telling me that story because you’re too lazy to look for the missing players in earnest?” some Cliston asked.

“Hey. You can’t know I’m lazy. The general manager guy. Maybe the butler. Maybe my sports agent. But you’re cheating.”

“I’ve been told. I had to sub-contract your Factotum liaison because this is not my expertise. I’d like you to meet your new point-of-contact on this assignment,” he said.

Cliston motioned and I saw Garm leaning against the kitchen doorframe.

“He’s probably lying. I doubt he looked at all,” Garm said.

“No. She can’t be my boss. She’s one of the people I would ask for help on the job. And she’s my co-glocken person. And she shares my sports agent. And she’s mad at me for calling her ugly or something when I was trying to escape from Rendrae.”

“You still work for Procon Hobb. Just twice removed,” Garm stated calmly.

“This is stupid. You all can’t keep these jobs straight. Between the three of us, there’s like ten people in this room,” I said.

“I can write down a flow chart if you wish, sir,” Cliston said.

“Butler?” I asked suspiciously.

“Yes, sir?” Cliston answered, as if he were confused why I was confused.

I stood up to go.

“You guys do whatever you want. I’m going to do Factotum stuff.”

“So why didn’t you take Ulteem’s offer?” Garm said.

“Who’s asking?” I answered suspiciously.

“Just me.”

“Well, I don’t know what else I would do with my life. Sit on a beach somewhere and stare at my toes? And honestly, I don’t think I could guarantee a loss unless I shot everyone in the locker room. I’m not exactly a star player,” I said.

I quickly pointed at Cliston.

“And that last part I said to my sports agent, not the general manager!”



Actually, I wasn’t going to do Factotum stuff. Not really.

I had to go to the first of my anger management classes because of what I did to that player in the last game. It was all over the glocken sports news.

The office was in the south of the space station. A new building, cheap by Belvaille standards.

There was no doorman. The carpet was second-rate. The elevator load capacity was low. The furnishings were dull and uninspired.

Everything about the building said it was the temporary home of upscale vagabonds trying to get a foothold on Belvaille.

My “counselor’s” office door had his name on a thin plastic card. There was no buzzer or knocker or anything. I walked in.

The first room was, no kidding, about ten feet wide and five feet long. He better hope he didn’t counsel any claustrophobes. There was another door ahead of me.

Two fluffy chairs were in the waiting area but I could tell they would collapse under me. A one-foot electric fountain gurgled pathetically in the corner, but it sounded like a deluge. It was playing a recording of some great ocean, as if you might be fooled into thinking those five cups of water were really a glacial snowmelt.

It was stuffy in here. I don’t know how. Belvaille was climate controlled. You had to go out of your way to make it this uncomfortable.

My counselor opened the door facing me wearing an angelic smile.

“Hank? Come in, won’t you?” he said.

I walked into the next room which was about twice the size of the waiting area. There was one large couch, a desk, some reference books, and a chair for the counselor.

I sized him up immediately.

He looked past middle-aged. Had brownish skin and was very thin. He wore a suit that didn’t fit and had on some jewelry that was out of style and seemed clunky on him. I could tell he had gone out of his way to put on his best attire. I bet he looked himself over and under in the mirror trying on this and that. But he just didn’t get it.

This was Belvaille. He looked like a hobo who had stumbled on a few pieces of jewelry some noble threw out of his limo after finding them under the seat cushions.

“Sit down, won’t you?” he said, resting in his chair.

“I’ll stand, your couch won’t hold me,” I said.

“Ah, yes. I’m terribly sorry about that,” he said, crossing his legs.

This guy was trying to be the big player in this encounter, the doctor, but he was clearly out of his element. I felt a little bad for him.

“Before we begin, can I ask a bit about you? I don’t like pouring my soul out to just anyone,” I said.

“Of course. I understand. It’s not easy sharing.”

“Yeah. So where did you go to school?”

“Yornothi Medical. It’s in Hamelin Cote System. A space station. Not unlike Belvaille,” he said.

He could have burped and I wouldn’t have known if that was the real name of a medical school—or any school for that matter. I was just trying to gauge his response. He seemed proud of his background, but comparing it to Belvaille was far-fetched. I got the sense he thought that I was so dense I had to be given an example of what a space station was.

“Do you live here now?” I asked.

“Only for the time being,” he said.

I was probably his only patient.

“Now how about you? Did you go to school?” he asked pleasantly.

I sighed.

“So look. I get it. This is a job. You were hired because I got rough with a professional glocken player. Glocken players are expensive. I should know. The other teams want assurances that I’m not going to break one of their player’s legs—as if glocken were some genteel pursuit,” I said.

He was blinking and I saw he was about to interrupt me.

“One second. Let me get through with this, please. I’m not sure how much you know about me. I’m about 800 years old. I helped start the Colmarian civil war. I was a gangster. I was a cop. I was a governor. I’ve killed lots and lots of people. But I almost never did it because I was angry. They’re just jobs. Like your job.”

The counselor’s mouth wasn’t quite open, but he was a lot less comfortable.

“You got better things to do and I got better things to do. I can pretend to be angry and talk about my fear of commitment and whether or not I wet the bed, but I’ll give you 100,000 credits to just go away. Tell your bosses I’m progressing nicely and go spend time with your family or take on real patients who need your help,” I said.

“Um. Hank, I’m not sure where this is coming from, but you have to realize that ethically I can’t possibly do that. Those things you mentioned, I have to imagine cause you considerable angst. It may even hinder your glocken playing. I think we should try and work through them,” he said earnestly.

I had gone in too fast. That was my mistake. This guy was legit and probably had pretty decent credentials. I should have tiptoed a little longer. But no turning back now.

“I don’t lose any sleep over what I’ve done. I lose sleep over what I haven’t done and what’s sitting on my plate. Right now I got a lot of things to do and this isn’t one of them. Doc, I’m a Factotum. I’m not sure you know what that is, but I do a lot of…questionable things on behalf of other people. Sometimes very questionable. But that’s the galaxy we live in. I do a lot of negotiations—like this one. The first few passes, I try and make things a victory for all sides involved. But if they won’t take the offer, well, sometimes I got to make it less of a victory for one side.”

I gave a pause while he soaked that in.

“What I’m saying, Doc, is that my anger management sessions are over.”





CHAPTER 29




I was up to my waist in a thick gelatinous paste.

Supposedly, it would help me mend my various ailments, but I think it was a lot of nonsense. It did smell nice and it did give me a tingly buzz, so I wasn’t in a hurry to get out.

However, it came with a price.

Sitting next to me in the goo was Rendrae and Oxobox. They looked like little boulders that had fallen into mud.

“Hank. I need to ask you about ‘the play.’ It’s all everyone wants to know about,” Rendrae said delicately.

I had been coached a bit on how to deal with the press, but I was already used to double-speak. I had been doing this stuff for a long, long time with some very dangerous people.

“Well, Rendrae, as I stated to the Trapezoid Regunditators, I’m terribly sorry for my actions. I had gotten caught up in the moment and I was clearly being out-played. My frustrations got the better of me,” I said.

“Do you think you should be sanctioned?” Rendrae asked, as if there were a sanctioning body.

“I know going into every game that my life is on the line. It’s what glocken is about,” I said.

“When you were down three points, I was surprised that you went with a cross-pattern flip-reverse split on two possessions. That cost you another five points. Do you have any insight into why those plays were called?” Oxobox asked. He tried to roll around in the paste, but was merely spinning slowly, coating himself.

“Sometimes the right plays are called and sometimes they aren’t. Sometimes they’re the right play at the wrong time and sometimes the play was wrong but the timing was right,” I said, and I splatted my hands in the slime as if to drive the point home.

“Tobo is no longer a part of your team, is that correct?” Rendrae asked.

“I don’t follow those things. You’ll have to talk to the front office,” I dodged.

“If Tobo is gone, do you think you can adequately take his place? Despite your last game, you are not a Twist of his experience and your running skills are extremely sub-par. Or are you looking to make the Mound of Pounds both an offensive and defensive unit?” Oxobox asked, now completely covered.

“My main goal is to focus on recovery and my handling skills. I’ll do my part when and where I’m called on to do it,” I said.

“Even if it requires you to perform illegal plays?” Rendrae asked slyly.

“Can we go off-record for a second?” I asked.

Rendrae looked at the ball of mud next to him.

“Sure,” he said, and he switched off his camera.

“Aren’t you supposed to be our team announcers? What’s with the hardball questions?” I asked.

“I also do my own news program. I just edit out the bad stuff for the team’s tele channel,” he answered.

I threw my arms up, splattering goo everywhere.

“What is it with everyone being ten different things? Why can’t people just stick to a role and do it? I don’t know what half the people are anymore!”

“You’re a Factotum and glocken player. How many assignments are you currently working on? You think I didn’t see that big bloody pile in your arms at Delovoa’s?” Rendrae challenged, like the die-hard reporter he was.

I sat a moment.

“Fair enough. But the official word is I didn’t mean to break that guy’s leg. If you want to speculate otherwise in your other program, that’s fine,” I said.

“Are you concerned about the short lifespan of glocken players? There seems to be a finite supply of Super Class-level recruits and you can’t replace them faster than they disappear,” Oxobox asked.

“Well, when I’m gone, I won’t especially care how the Belvaille Glocken Team does without me,” I said. But then I realized that was a stupid thing to admit. “I mean, I’ll care. I’ll care a lot. Just not the same way. Not…as a player. But as a spectator and fan.”

“Do you think the pay is too high for glocken players?” Oxobox asked, as if anyone would ever admit that. Even Rendrae rolled his eyes.

“Um, I think we’re given a fair remuneration considering the dangers involved,” I said.

“It just seems that quite a few players are quitting after a small number of games. I know the Dredel Led are concerned this may result in games with inferior players. We highly value glocken and don’t wish to see it slip competitively,” Oxobox said.

“How many players are quitting Super Class?” I asked.

“Assuming Tobo quit—which we have on good authority—almost fifty players this season have left the league,” Rendrae said.

I sat thinking about that. It didn’t make sense. That was a huge number, even considering all the injuries.

“And they’re quitting? You know this?” I asked.

Maybe this whole sport was riddled with bribery.

“Well, they’re leaving the game. They usually drop out of sight. It’s understandable to want to keep a low profile after being under such a bright spotlight,” Rendrae said foolishly.

It was foolish because these weren’t the guys, gals, and creatures who tended to shun the spotlight. You wouldn’t become a professional glocken player if you couldn’t handle attention.

“Do you have a list of players who recently retired?” I asked.





CHAPTER 30




I hadn’t seen Delovoa in a month or so. On the ship ride back, he had been aloof and only gave me cursory examinations and my formula.

I assumed he was busy huffing mind-altering Zzzho gas. Or in the case of Delovoa’s three brains, minds-altering.

I went to his home with Gun and the list of missing players from Rendrae and Oxobox. Their list bothered me because it was large compared to how many there were in Super Class.

A cursory examination of the list on my tele showed that most of them retired without suffering any cataclysmic injuries. They just quit. Whether they vanished or not, like Tobo and Porj and Yorsh, is something I had to find out.

I buzzed Delovoa’s door. Again. And again.

Finally, he came and he looked off. Off-er than usual.

“Hank! Hank! Great! Come in!” He stammered.

His three eyes were bugged and spinning. He looked haggard. The blood in his glass dome sputtered erratically.

Inside, his place was a shambles. I know Ziggy had quit being his butler to become a glocken player, but I didn’t understand how a frail guy in a wheelchair could make such a mess.

“So. Delovoa. How are you?” I asked.

“Fantastic. Hank, I need you to get these people,” he said, handing me a sheet of electro-fabric paper smeared with what looked like dried blood.

“Get them? Like bring them to talk to you?” I asked.

“Talk? Sure, sure,” he said, which made it clear that wasn’t what he meant.

There were eight names of which I knew a few.

“I can’t just go around kidnapping people,” I said.

“You’re a professional glocken player, dummy. Ask them out for a drink. It’s what you people do. They’ll come.”

Oh, yeah. I kept forgetting I wasn’t just a thug with heraldry.

“What are you going to do to them?” I asked.

“Nothing,” Delovoa said. “Nothing much,” he amended.

“I need you to really examine Gun. It talked to me again. When we were on Mapposh 48. I want to know what it is.”

“Twenty million credits!” Delovoa blurted.

“What? No.”

“Two million. No, the five million you owe me,” he said.

“That deal didn’t happen, you know that. And I’m tapped out. I gave a ton of money to my uncle. I’m living paycheck to paycheck.”

“You have an uncle?” he asked.

“Maybe.”

“Maybe I’m your uncle. Give me twenty million!” He said.

“No. Hey, are you okay? Have you been high on Keilvin Kamigan this whole time?” I asked.

“Don’t be silly, you can’t get high on it, but using it did give me a lot of ideas.”

“Whatever. Can you look at Gun?” I asked, and took it out of its case.

“Don’t point it at me!” Delovoa said.

“Hello,” Gun said, as I held it.

“So you’re still talking?” I asked.

“Sometimes. The question is, is anyone listening?” Gun said.

Delovoa stared at Gun. Illegal, absurd technology was irresistible to him.

“Sure, I’ll look at it. Put it”—he looked around his cluttered home—“somewhere I can find it.”

“I’m going to put it on your kitchen table,” I said. “His name is Gun by the way.”

“Brilliant. I can tell you right now it’s not Colmarian,” Delovoa stated confidently.

“And how is that?”

“The old Tech Codes prohibited making artificial intelligence. And there’s no way we could fit it inside something as small as a gun, even if we did. Besides, what would be the purpose?”

“Yeah, Cliston told me the original Dredel Led were the size of cities,” I said.

“Huh. I don’t know if your ‘Gun’ is real artificial intelligence or just a bunch of stock answers, but I’ll look.”

“I need to hack some more teles, so I’ll need the Historian guys. But they’ll want something in return. Do you have any information I can trade them? Like, secrets?” I asked.

Delovoa tapped his blood-squirting glass skull.

“Tell them about the civil war. How it started. Almost no one knows the real truth. I must have heard a hundred different versions. Tell them about that…Naked Man or whoever,” he said.

“Naked Guy. That’s a pretty damn good idea. And it would finally clear my name,” I said. “I told the Historians the truth about who killed the Governor.”

“Well, that was stupid. Why would you do that?”

“They had a pretty girl ask me. And they gave me this weird paper and said it was important to me.”

I showed Delovoa the sheet with the letters and numbers and symbols and colors. I had been carrying it around with me since I got it. At first I was protective of it, thinking it might be…I don’t know, some ultra-secret code. But now I was showing it to everyone I met, asking bartenders and waitresses if they could make sense of it.

Delovoa examined it.

“Looks like a bunch of colors and designs,” he said.

“Wow! You are a genius! I know that. What does it mean?” I asked.

“What’s it mean? The best I can tell is you got the Arch Minister mad at you in exchange for gibberish,” he replied.





CHAPTER 31




We won the next game handily.

It was a local team and they were pretty lousy. They tried to load their roster with the fastest guys they could find. But a lane isn’t all that wide. It’s not as if you got three car-lengths to hop back and forth.

Even their top lanes were fast. But they were too small. One guy got hit by Bley-ore so hard he almost died.

That’s glocken. That’s Super Class glocken.

Still, my job was to block their 8-lane. Of course he was their one big guy. I don’t know what he was. Just an enormous Colmarian. He pulled out a tuft of my hair and separated my right ear practically in half.

But he had knobby knees so I would hit him there every single play. Broke my left clavicle, but I also broke his knee and that was that.



I was now in the Belvaille Gent Club looking to get stinking drunk. This was my post-game ritual and so far it had been good luck.

Meaning that I wasn’t dead—yet.

My face was wrapped up, my ear, my fingers, I had this big puffy thing around my shoulder. I would not be dancing anytime soon.

I wanted some sausages and some XX² liquor. It was about the hardest stuff you could drink that wouldn’t straight-up kill you.

I had gotten some bad vibes last time I was in the Club. They didn’t like the fact a professional glocken player was crashing their joint.

I don’t know if it was Belvaille pride—our team was named for the city—or the fact I played dirty, but there were much more friendly faces than last time.

I was into my third plate of sausages and a half-gallon of XX² when I spied an old friend.

“Hey, Lagla-nagla!” I said.

Lagla-nagla was the “lopsided man.” He worked for various nobles.

There was always something off about the poor guy. His eyes were crooked—his whole face was crooked—his hair was uneven, his arms and legs were different lengths. He fidgeted, he sat wrong, he walked wrong, and when he drank, like half of it spilled down his lopsided mouth.

He was exactly the kind of guy you didn’t want working in a high-class establishment. But I guess he had seniority because he’d been doing it forever.

“Hey, Hank,” he replied. “Okay if I sit down?”

“Sure.”

He fell into the chair, threw his arms up to balance himself, and planted his legs. If it was anyone else you would guess they were joking or dead drunk, but that was a smooth landing for him.

“So tell me some gossip. Which noble you working for now?” I asked.

Lagla-nagla routinely got fired. He had this giant list of credentials, but he was so off-putting that people didn’t want him around. Just looking at him made you wonder if he was suffering a stroke—or you were.

“I’m not working for nobles no more,” he said.

“Aww, sorry about that. You get sacked?” I asked.

“Nah, I quit. I figure, the nobles is over. Or just about,” he said lazily.

“What? They own this System. They own whole planets!” I said, amazed.

“Says who? Them? They got all these nobles here and they don’t got no armies and they don’t do no work. It’s the gangs who got the power. I work for Fat Morry, collecting money at the docks.”

This was surprising enough I almost stopped drinking.

“The nobles built this System. Built the city. I know the gangs have power, I work with them all the time, but they all dream of being nobles.”

“I seen enough nobles, Hank. Nobles is just paper. Heraldry is, excuse me for saying”—he pointed at my heraldry—“just a metal badge. Someone shoots you, what’s it gonna’ do? Not you, I mean. I’m talking the big-boy nobles. Their time is coming to a close.”

The nobles were kind of name only. Only the Arch Minister had any real power in Belvaille.

I hoped Lagla-nagla wasn’t right. Nobles were still my biggest customers and I longed to one day join their ranks and become a member of the idle rich.





CHAPTER 32




I was at the training facility working out.

Well, not working out, I was eating. But food helped me heal, so it was kind of working out.

I had a face full of sugar pastry when Kitt walked up, boobs in my face.

“Hi, Hank,” she said.

“Kitt. You want to have sex?” I blurted smoothly.

I had been thinking about Kitt’s earlier proposals. Thought about it a few hundred times, I’d guess. I had a whole complicated series of steps and plays and assists I planned to use to get me back in a position to ask her if she was still interested.

But when Kitt walked up I had been so startled and pastry-tongued that I just blurted it out.

It was a curse and a blessing to be self-aware. I know when I make mistakes. I know how I look to the world. And right now, I was a used-up street thug, fully naked, with a face full of frosting, who had just acted like a gawky teenager.

“I was hoping you’d say that. That’s what I came to ask you, as a matter of fact,” she said.

“Oh.”

I stood up and we walked past the rows and rows of exercise equipment I had yet to utilize.

She walked ahead of me, completely oblivious to me scrutinizing her. She was just really muscular. I sucked in my gut instinctively. It was the first time ever that I hoped we could turn off the lights.

We went to a side room where there were a lot of spongy mats on the ground. I don’t know what for. Some mat exercises I guess.

We went in and she turned to face me with a devilish smile. I smiled back and looked over and saw Candar by the other door to the room.

“Hank, you’ve missed every practice this week,” he chastised.

“I’m here today.”

“But you didn’t practice.”

“I’m about to, hopefully.”

“I just think you need to work on your attitude. It feels like you don’t take the team seriously. If you’re going to be offense and defense, you need to commit,” he said.

“Can this wait, Candar? I’m a little busy. You know. Wink, wink. Nudge, nudge.” I grinned.

“I know, I sent Kitt to bring you. I want to practice some team-building,” he said.

“Now?”

Garm came in the room, also naked of course, and she smirked at me.

He couldn’t mean.

I stood there dumbly and Kitt walked forward and put her arms on my shoulders. Reached down to put her arms on my shoulders seeing as she was taller than me.

Candar and Garm also embraced each other.

I was shocked. This was worth a million adolescent fantasies and I had the cold sweats.

“You’ll have to forgive Hank,” Garm said, “he’s a bit repressed.”



A while later, in another part of the gym, I said:

“I feel traumatized. It’s not as if Kitt isn’t sexy. Or Garm isn’t sexy. Or the whole thing wasn’t sexy. I could do without Candar, that guy has to show off at everything, but it just wasn’t my style, you know?”

Grah made the perfect listening buddy. He spoke so slowly that you could completely ignore him altogether. I was probably whole paragraphs ahead of him.

“Will things get weird now? Am I weird for thinking it’s weird? I’m like 500 years old, I’m set in my ways. Not all my ways, you have to adapt. But some ways. I don’t like walking around naked. I don’t like purposefully running into freight trains over and over again. I like to have a good meal or five and take a nap. I like my sexification to be binary. Am I asking a lot?”

Grah, I could tell, was starting to respond to my initial question on whether or not it was okay to talk to him. I went on speaking, knowing I would have time.

“We’re not a religious cult. We’re not a family. We’re a team. Co-workers. I don’t need to know your intimate details. You don’t need to know mine. Are you going to be able to block for me better if you know I have a birthmark on my butt? I don’t see how.”

Grah was still trying to say something.

I decided I would let him talk. It was only fair.

After a few more minutes I decided I would let him ask me one question because he was still working on it and I didn’t have all night.

It took a while, but he finally got it out.

“What is sex?” he asked.





CHAPTER 33




I was skipping more practices than usual. I just didn’t feel comfortable after having a sexscapade with half the team and then afterwards explaining it in excruciatingly slow detail to a rock creature.

Having me describe sex was like asking Delovoa to explain generosity.

Was Garm right? Was I repressed? Me worrying about it almost proved it. And me worrying about worrying about it was insecurity of repression. Or repression of insecurity.

Damn, why did I fire my psychiatrist?

There were people who spent their whole waking lives thinking about sex and trying to get it. That always seemed horribly pathetic to me. If I looked back on my life and there was nothing but the blurry faces from one-night stands, I will be sorely depressed.

Not that I was some archbishop. I had been around the block a few times, up the street, down the alley, and in some car crashes. It’s just that sex wasn’t a driving force in my life.

We could hardly remember the actual deed. If we were able to memorize all the details perfectly, there would never be a need to try and have sex again. Whole species would die out as we spent our lives daydreaming of that one great score. Like drug addicts can’t recreate the high just by thinking about it. They have to do it over and over again. Best to not get addicted in the first place, I say.

No one’s life was going to change in a tremendous way from fornicatin’. But as a Factotum, thug, and even a glocken player, I did stuff every day that affected people for their entire lives. If you robbed someone at gunpoint, they’d remember that until the day they died. Their whole personalities might even change. To me, that’s how you measured what you’ve done: by the breadth, results, and permanence of your actions.

Anyway, I went into the Gent Club to do some exploring.

“Not allowed,” Gample said to me again.

I leaned on the coat check window, ripped out the plastic panel that separated him from me, and then grabbed him by his very insignificant neck.

“I didn’t hear you. Can you repeat that?” I asked.

He said nothing. Not even a gurgle.

I let him go and walked inside. I wondered if the two security guards would give me trouble.

“Great game last month, Hank,” one said.

“Yeah. I put down 300 credits that you’d break a bone,” the other said.

That stopped me.

“Someone was taking action that I would break a bone?” That seemed really specific.

“Well, either break someone’s or break your own. It was 5:1 odds. I also placed that you’d lose a tooth or take a tooth. That was 10:1,” he said.

“I did that one also,” the first guard added.

These guys were grinning ear-to-ear despite me just strangling their boss. It felt weird that people were gambling on me. People I didn’t even know.

“You’re the hometown hero,” I heard a voice say, in answer to my thoughts.

It was Podiver Vance. Nine foot, gangly arms and all. He seemed to know when I was around and needed something. Then again, that was his job.

“Vance, let’s talk,” I said.

“My booth awaits.”

He reached out to me and put his hand on my side. It was still startling even though I knew how tall he was. Here I was, six feet of personal space in all directions, and the guy could easily wrap his arms around me.

We went to his booth and I noticed he was taking extra slow strides. This is a guy who could probably walk across the room in three steps and he was practically crawling.

He was showing me off to the club.

We finally reached his booth and took our seats, Vance’s knees resting comfortably under his chin.

“What can I do for you, Hank?”

“You know those people double-crossed me on that job you set up? I gave them Procon Hobb’s skin and they shot me,” I said.

“Yeah, sorry about that. If I knew more about them, I would tell you,” he said, seeming sincere.

“What do you know?”

“That they wanted the skin for religious ceremonies. That’s it. I only met one.”

“What did he look like? What species was he?” I asked.

“Species? I don’t know. Just a Colmarian, I guess.”

“Colmarian? That could be anything. Describe him.”

“I can’t remember. He wore robes,” he said.

I felt Podiver owed me after I had chopped up an Usk, gotten shot repeatedly, and had nothing to show for it.

I took out the piece of paper the Historian had given me after I incriminated the Arch Minister. I was running out of people to ask about it, but hoped Podiver might point me in the right direction. I had basically pissed off one of the most powerful people in the galaxy to get it. I wasn’t going to let it sit at the bottom of my underwear drawer.

“Does this mean anything to you?” I asked.

He looked at it a long while, putting it almost right up to his nose.

“Yeah, it’s Rettosian,” he said finally.

“What? Their language is a big string of colored symbols?” I asked.

“No, their language is three-dimensional moving type. You can’t display it on paper. So they have all kinds of superscripts, subscripts, arrows, and colors to indicate how letters work when they’re in a two-dimensional format,” he said.

“So what does it mean?” I asked.

“I can’t speak Rettosian, I just recognize it. I can get it translated, but it will take some time. The only people who speak Rettosian are Rettosians. A hundred thousand credits,” he said.

“How about I shoot you in the eyes like your religious buyers did to me?” I asked.

“You know when you robbed my store and got it destroyed, I lost over a hundred million in merchandise and repairs,” he said.

“Didn’t you have insurance?”

“Sure. But it didn’t cover having a Central Authority star fighter blast the hell out of my second floor,” he replied.

“Okay. I’ll give you two hundred grand, but you can’t ever use the sad tale of Vintage Vance Vagaries to guilt me into doing something ever again.”

“Deal.”

“How long will it take?” I asked.

“Probably a couple months.”

“Why so long? It’s not like a book that needs translating.”

“It will take me that long to find a Rettosian willing to even speak to me, let alone work as a translator,” he said.





CHAPTER 34




I liked to keep track of the times I was wrong about stuff. Really drive it into my brain.

It reminded me that even though I’ve been running deals for centuries, I certainly didn’t know everything.

When they started building glocken stadiums in Belvaille, I thought it was the biggest waste of money imaginable. Total vanity projects.

Sure, glocken was popular, but people could just watch on teles. Why did we need these massive structures?

Of course I was totally wrong.

Belvaille was not only the geographic center of the galaxy, it was connected by exponentially more Portals than any other System. Everyone came here to watch games. The stadiums were booked to capacity.

The Belvaille Glocken Team’s next four games were all at home.

Magda Strongarm hired me a personal coach by the name of Hojon No-Leg. He was an old-time glocken player who was supposed to teach me his skills. He didn’t lose his legs playing glocken per se, he lost his legs because he had run one too many dirty plays and the fans erupted, ran onto the field, and pulled his legs off with their bare hands.

My new official role was to be the team Hack.

I was to learn every cheap shot, dirty trick, and means of injuring other players that modern sports science could devise. Delovoa gave me tools like acid sprays and fast-acting influenza viruses. I learned how to use my weight to pop player’s joints and tear their ligaments.

I didn’t feel bad about it, either.

All of us at all times use whatever means at our disposal to achieve our biological goals. Whether gathering food, finding a mate, securing shelter, or whatever.

An insect doesn’t go, “Wow, that was really cheap, imitating the pollen of a flower that makes up my diet and then luring me inside to my death.” No. It’s dead. It doesn’t say anything.

I was a professional glocken player at the moment. I had to use what tools I had. There was no such thing as unfair or unsporting.

Every once in a while I would try and run or make a Twist play, but I was competing against 7-lanes and carrying a thousand pounds. It was pretty clear, even to me, that if I wanted to help the team and not get creamed, I had to play as ruthlessly as possible.

We won all of our games due to attrition. Each game I took out a key player, probably ending the careers of at least four of them, and we were able to win rather easily.

Ziggy and Neddy were our powerhouse scorers with Candar and Kitt and Garm pulling off the occasional rally. The Mound of Pounds mostly beat faces and when they were beaten enough, we’d go Wedge block for our lower lanes.

Our last game we took out the opposing 6-, 7-, and 8-lanes completely. Then this poor 500-pound guy had to not only try and stop Candar, but had to look out for a 15,000-pound Gandrine rushing his flank.

We weren’t as elegant or overpowering as the Reskin Sleepers, but we were still firmly in second place.



“This is Rendrae, your Force For Sports reporting from the Mega-Massive-Dome in Belvaille System where the Belvaille Glocken Team has triumphed over the Willowy Webstunters by 85 points. With me, as always, is my partner in crime, Oxobox.”

“I haven’t committed a crime,” Oxobox intoned.

“And we also have special guest, Hank,” Rendrae continued. “Hank, three opposing starters down, two substitutes down, what do you attribute that to?”

“Well, we just got lucky. The Webstunters put up a good fight,” I said.

“Many people call you the team Hack, what is your response?” Oxobox said.

“Oh, no, I’m a player in this league and I take the time-honored regulations very seriously. There are referees monitoring our every action,” I said.

“You were called for twenty-three penalties over the last three games,” Rendrae interrupted.

“See? They’re on top of things,” I replied. “Those penalties hurt us quite a bit.”

“But not nearly as much as losing a player,” Oxobox said.

“It’s a shame when players are injured. Truly. I just wish everyone a speedy recovery,” I said sincerely.

“Evus Maurus, who you got in a scrum with two days ago, is in a coma from his injuries,” Rendrae said.

“I hadn’t heard. I hope he gets better,” I said.

“The doctors reported he had unusually high levels of Keilvin Kamigan gas in his lungs,” Oxobox added.

“Hmm, I don’t want to speculate, but some players do dabble in experimental drugs in an effort to improve their game play. I do not endorse this,” I said.

“So it couldn’t be possible that you had anything to do with it?” Rendrae probed.

“How could I even do that? Carry some Keilvin Kamigan gas with me onto the field? I mean, come on! And even if I did, I certainly wouldn’t have meant to put him in a coma. He was probably allergic or something. I’ve said this many times now, when we step out there, those players are trying to destroy me and I’m trying to destroy them. Glocken is not a gentleman’s sport. It is a ruffian’s sport,” I said.

“Speaking of which, I noticed you have been bleeding a lot more your last few games. Is this an attempt to make yourself more difficult to tackle?” Oxobox asked.

“Yes. That is totally my strategy,” I said blankly.

“It does not appear to be working as you have been tackled on nearly every carry,” Oxobox said. “I’m not sure if giving up your blood is worth the small advantage. Your stats remain zero across the board.”

“I wish they would broaden what they report in terms of statistics,” I said, annoyed. “Scoring points isn’t the only thing that goes on in glocken.”

“Your team is now easily in second place next to the Reskin Sleepers. When do you think the Championship will be?” Rendrae asked.

“You’ll have to talk to Cliston. From what I understand, the Championship takes place when all the teams agree that they’re running out of players and they need to rebuild for next season. I think we can squeak out a few more games before things reach the point of no return,” I said.

“It looks like you’ll be playing the Sleepers. What do you calculate your chances are?” Oxobox asked.

“I have the utmost confidence in our coaching and players,” I said, dreading the idea of ever facing the Reskin Sleepers again.





CHAPTER 35




Podiver Vance finally got back to me about the Rettosian writing I gave him. I had completely forgotten about it, since I was so busy cheating at glocken. He said the translation of my Historian letter was almost as confusing as the original, but he had it on good authority it was correct.

He also complained that he lost money on the deal, because he had to bribe three levels of officials just to get anywhere.

The translation was a big series of numbers and letters and dashes and dots.

But this time, I knew what it was: it was a shipping manifest number.

After getting the bugs for the Usk, I remembered the pattern.

I wasn’t going to bother MTB with tracing it. I didn’t need to know where it came from or when. I just wanted to locate it and see what the Historians felt I should know.

I wandered through one of the many port warehouses. Heavy lifters were constantly loading and unloading goods that had just come from space.

I bribed one dock worker who could understand the manifest number. He pointed me to another warehouse across the docks.

It took me about three hours, but I found the crate belonging to the manifest. It was a metal rectangle, about four feet long, three feet wide, and two feet deep.

I looked around to see if the coast was clear and I cracked all the seals on the shipping container. There must have been twenty and it took me a while to figure them all out.

When the top opened with a hiss, I was stunned.

The little arms, the little legs, the tiny body. That face was burnt into my memory after seeing it so many times when I ransacked his apartment.

It was Porj, one of our team’s glocken players that had gone missing.

He was quite dead, though not decomposing to a great extent. The casket must have kept him preserved.

I checked the label. It indicated that it had been sitting here for months. Its final destination was a numbered storage center on Floloria, the Rettosian space station, with a delivery date of five days from now.



I teled Zzzho and asked if he could make a taxi run for me. Sure, if I could pay.

“Hey, are you allowed on the Rettosian space station? I know they don’t allow you on Belvaille,” I said.

My idea was to have this gas cloud follow around the casket and see where it ended up.

“You kidding, they’re even snobbier than the nobles of Belvaille. That station is almost completely Rettosian only.”

“You’re saying they got Rettosian porters? They’re going to come over and lift cargo?”

That didn’t seem realistic to me, knowing the Rettosians. They were my role models when it came to being lazy.

“No, I think they have a bunch of servants. Or slaves,” Zzzho buzzed on the tele.

Slaves? I wondered if they still had Ontakians working for them.

“Okay, I’ll need to go there in five days.” I said.

“Give me some notice when you want to leave so I don’t have a fare.”

“Okay. See you then,” I said.



I wanted to get Gun from Delovoa. I’m not sure if it mattered, but maybe a Rettosian gun would be handy against Rettosians—if it came to that.

“Do you want to know about Gun?” Delovoa asked, when I had reached his home.

“Yes.”

Gun was sitting on a pillow in the center of the junky room. It looked out of place. Like a relic among garbage. It was bright even in the dark room, its chrome features sparkling.

“It can’t be scanned. Nothing I did could scan it, not even with my most powerful wavelengths. It has no seams, no screws, no bolts, no way of opening it at all. I tried inserting a probe down the barrel and it stops after one inch. There is no way it should be able to fire. It doesn’t look like a machine at all. It looks like a hunk of very shiny metal.”

“It fired. It shot me. And it talks. You’ve heard it,” I said.

“Let me finish. I’ve had long conversations with Gun since you dropped it off. If I had to give it a personality, I would say it was similar to someone who has a minor degree in philosophy and lives in its parent’s basement and spends its free time writing bad poetry.”

That was a little depressing.

“So can I use it?” I asked.

“I did get it to fire several times. I think when it was annoyed or bored or trying to make a point. I analyzed the shots and they do not appear to be solid bullets. That would have been extremely confusing since it can’t be reloaded in any way that I can see. I believe it fires a blob of gravitons that warps localized space in such a way that it appears to take on the characteristics of a projectile.”

“I don’t know what that means,” I complained.

“I don’t either,” Delovoa admitted. “I’m not sure how it works. From what you said, it might take the bioelectricity of whomever is holding it and use that.”

“Kind of like Keilvin Kamigans powering electronic devices?” I asked.

“Sort of. Gun itself doesn’t seem to know how it works.”

“So you’ve told me nothing. Is it dangerous?”

Delovoa shrugged.

“As dense as you are, you are a huge store for bioelectricity. You said the gun was fired by Rettosians or created by them. I’ve never worked on a Rettosian, but their liquid skin must require a good source of energy. It’s fine that Colmarians have blood and bile flowing inside their bodies, but to flow outside subject to the environment, is quite another feat. Still, if I had to guess, I’d say you’re a much larger battery than any Rettosian. When I held it, it didn’t do much except talk.”

I looked at Gun.

“I’m going to pick it up. Kick it away if it knocks me unconscious,” I said.

“I’m in a wheelchair. I’ll poke it away,” Delovoa said.

I took a deep breath and picked up Gun, holding it loosely.

“Hello,” Gun said.

“Hi. So, is what he said true? Do you fire like gravitons and use electricity?” I asked.

“Who said that?” Gun asked.

“He’s a terrible listener. I usually had to repeat myself three or four times,” Delovoa whined.

“Delovoa is the person you’re staying with. He ran some tests on you,” I said.

“I didn’t like him very much,” Gun replied.

“Yeah. But would you like to work with me?” I asked.

“I’m not sure. I don’t have a lot of qualifications that I know of.”

“You can shoot people, right?” I asked.

“I suppose. Seems pretty dull work,” Gun said.

“He’s also good decoration,” Delovoa offered.

“Yeah, you are attractive as jewelry. And excellent company,” I said pleasantly.

“Do you think so? Sometimes I think no one understands me. I have trouble understanding others, so it only makes sense,” Gun stated.

“You’re the first talking gun I’ve ever met. That alone is very interesting,” I said.

“Should I shoot him?” Gun asked.

“Shoot who?” I answered.

“That Delovoa guy.”

“No! No! Don’t shoot anyone yet,” I said, pointing Gun away from the cringing Delovoa.

“Oh. I’m probably not a good judge, but he seemed like he deserved a good shooting,” Gun said.





CHAPTER 36




The next day I set up a formal meeting with Cliston and Garm.

It was brief.

I showed them the tele pictures I took of Porj to prove I was on the case and had leads. Garm was satisfied I was working and freed my full Factotum salary.

I said I needed time to go off-station and investigate. General manager Cliston promptly fined me, but sports agent Cliston talked the fine down because it was related to our team.

Butler Cliston served us lunch.

My Factotum salary put me back on decent financial footing even with the fine. It was crazy that despite having gross proceeds five times what I was making a year ago, I felt I was always scraping bottom.

Manager Cliston then told me that our next game had been cancelled. He said it was due to them losing four players.

“Losing or retiring?” I asked.

“I don’t know, but they don’t have enough to field a competent team,” Cliston answered.

It was accelerating. This made the gambling angle seem less likely. I couldn’t imagine that people would place bets on games being cancelled, that was too obscure.

“In any case, you need to get in shape,” he said. “You’ve been gaining weight.”

“You cook my food!” I said.

“Would you like me to cook less, sir?”

“No. I like food,” I said.

“There is a two million bonus if you can lose fifty pounds.”

“Talk to my agent and see if I can get that down to twenty-five pounds,” I said.

“I got you one million for thirty,” he answered immediately.



I received an urgent tele from Podiver Vance at the Gent Club. I figured it was about the Rettosian script, but he said someone was here to meet me and it was important.

I worried it might be an agent from Maris-To who had learned I spoke to the Historians. I thought about not going, but he could just have the Central Authority drag me in. Besides, the Gent Club was as neutral a place as you could find.

When I arrived at the Club, the building was silent. I never realized how loud the Gent Club was until it had switched to this eerie tomb.

I walked through the ground floor and all the cutthroats and gang lords were whispering and cringing. Not at me, but at something deeper in the Club.

In his corner, I saw a stunned Podiver Vance sitting across from an Ank.

All Ank looked alike. Really. Not even their mothers could tell them apart. They had white, almost translucent skin, with just slits for eyes and a tiny mouth. They were tall and thin and their arms were so feeble they were useless.

They all wore floor-length robes that they covered with chains, jewels, writing, lights, baubles, and anything else that made them distinct—it was how they differentiated themselves.

Ank were the bankers of the galaxy. They controlled all money. They had done so since the concept of money first existed, probably.

Credits were just plastic sheets with electronics in them. They only had value because the Ank said so. Nearly every transaction of significance that took place in Belvaille, or in the entire galaxy, went through Ank financial institutions—including all my payments as a Factotum or glocken player.

Ank couldn’t sit in normal chairs, but he, or she, was seated, so a custom chair must have been brought along.

Podiver Vance took his leave and I sat down.

“I didn’t think Ank were allowed on Belvaille,” I said.

All Ank had the same voice. It was sweet and tinkling and never sounded like bad news even if they just told you your puppy dog spontaneously combusted. I tended to think of all Ank as men, because their voice was somewhat more masculine than feminine.

“We choose to stay on our ship for logistical reasons,” the Ank said.

The Club patrons were staring at us quite openly. For people who wanted nothing more than lots of money, an Ank was like a walking fairy tale. There were practically puddles of drool on the floor.

“So what can I do for you?” I asked.

“The Reskin Sleepers,” he said.

I had not expected those words at all.

“Yeah?”

“They cannot win,” he continued.

“Well, they’re sure faking it pretty well. They are undefeated since they did their major overhaul.”

“You do not understand. The Reskin Sleepers losing is part of our galactic financial Formula. It is considered a fact of nature. Now that they are winning, it could cause economic turmoil.”

“I can’t see them losing any time soon, unless someone steals their players. Just change your formula,” I said.

Ank didn’t have facial expressions, but he paused.

“The Formula is vast. It has been modified by generations of Ank over thousands of years. You cannot simply change parts of it. It requires significant time.”

“I’ve been betting on the Reskin Sleepers to win for hundreds of years. You’re saying it’s a fact of nature for me to lose?”

“Yes. We were aware of your wagers. You are even a variable in the Formula: hrswnw. You were the only person who bet consistently for so long.”

“The only person in the galaxy?” I asked, shocked.

“No, but the others were small and random enough that they were lumped under hrswnw,” he said.

That was annoying. Who knew how much money I had lost over the centuries on a bet that was essentially impossible to win.

“So how does this affect me? I don’t know what you’re asking,” I said.

“We need your team to play and beat the Reskin Sleepers. We believe you have the greatest opportunity out of the current Super Class roster. We shall arrange for you to play them.”

“You can’t do that. The managers decide the schedules,” I said.

“We set the gambling odds, the payments, the insurance, the advertising, and every other monetary aspect surrounding glocken. While we do not enjoy taking an active part, this is simply too significant to leave unattended. It affects everyone.”

“I’m tired of fighting for ‘everyone.’ What about me? You know, I broke up that Ank conspiracy to enslave the population and I never even got a thank you or goodnight kiss.”

“We are aware of your activities and you have our gratitude for disrupting the machinations of a handful of rogue Ank. What is it you wish in return for defeating the Reskin Sleepers?” he asked.

Hmm. I had once been given an infinite credit token by the Ank. Infinite. Of course it didn’t do much good because no one could make change for infinity, but it was nice to have.

“Can you make me full royalty?” I asked.

“I’m afraid not. The Arch Minister controls that and he is…suspicious of Ank influence. If it is any consolation, we believe the system of government in Belvaille is unsustainable. We estimate it shall experience a forced revolution within approximately 8.44.”

My jaw hit the table. A revolution? What would take its place? I figured everyone was sick of war.

But another thing had been bothering me about the Ank scheme I thwarted.

“Those ‘rogue’ Ank used clones. They had cloned important people and used them as puppets to help forward their goals. I’ve seen clone technology before, but how did the Ank get it?”

“We conducted our own investigation after the Ank on Belvaille were stopped. We found the clones you mentioned. The ability to craft such beings was never, as far as we know, available outside of Rettosian territory. It was a closely guarded expertise.”

“Rettosians? Clones were used to fight in the Colmarian civil war, too. You’re saying they were Rettosian?” I asked skeptically.

“The clones in the civil war were of Colmarians, but the means of constructing them was Rettosian. The same could be said of the clones you encountered on Belvaille that were used by the rebellious Ank. That is our hypothesis.”

Porj’s corpse was already headed there. But now I really wanted to visit the Rettosian space station.





CHAPTER 37




Some days later, it took Zzzho seven hours to taxi me to Floloria. It was not exactly in the prime real estate section of Belvaille System.

People could apparently deliver goods to Floloria with no problem. But for delivering myself, I had to talk to their Harbormaster, and he only spoke Rettosian.

That was a perfect example of what Rettosians were like. Everyone in the galaxy spoke Colmarian. If we had all kept our native tongues we would have countless languages at this point. Rettosians, however, refused to adapt. They felt their language was superior and more elegant.

Frankly, it was. Colmarian was a simplistic, almost brutal language that could be spoken, with an accent, no matter what kind of mouth you had. Only Rettosians had the vocal capabilities to speak Rettosian. It was almost a song.

I was standing just inside the station airlock while the Harbormaster serenaded me. I had no idea what he was saying—and this was the person they had in charge of welcoming strangers.

After some time of me yelling and gesticulating, they finally brought over a junior member who could speak Colmarian.

They said I wasn’t allowed into the city.

I disagreed. I said this was Belvaille System, and per our laws, anyone could go anywhere—except Belvaille space station itself. Also, I had been in space for seven hours and needed sustenance. They couldn’t refuse me. That much I knew.

Reluctantly, they agreed. They sequestered me in a tiny room and gave me some bad food and sour water as two guards glared at me.

They were normal Rettosian guards and like all of their species, their skin was liquid and colorful and looked like liquid neon. It flowed across their bodies and was constantly reabsorbed and secreted. The upper class Rettosians would have all kinds of spouts and funnels and waterfalls built into their outfits to highlight their peculiar biology. These guards needed functional clothes, however, so they only had some see-through tubes that carried their liquid skin across their bodies like plumbing.

The clerk who spoke Colmarian told me I would have to leave soon.

“Get the Harbormaster in here, I want to talk to him,” I said coolly.

“He doesn’t understand your language and has made it clear he doesn’t wish to speak with you,” the clerk said snootily.

“What are you going to do, kill me? That would look awful bad,” I said.

I flashed my heraldry.

“Considering I’m a Factotum on assignment from Maris-To,” I finished, staring death at the clerk.

The clerk frowned and left the room.

I hoped that the fear of Maris-To surpassed the Rettosian umbrage. I also hoped that they didn’t wonder why Maris-To would ever possibly use a Factotum when he had control of the Central Authority, who could just ram a hole in this stupid space station and walk in without asking anyone’s by-your-leave.

The Harbormaster took a good hour coming back to meet with me and he had three people with him. They weren’t going to suffer being in my little room, so I was moved to a conference area.

The other Rettosians were officials whose titles I couldn’t understand because they were in Rettosian. But their outfits were cool, lots of flowing, bubbling, gurgling skin.

The clerk translated for them.

The Rettosians only looked at me—physically turned their eyes on me—for maybe thirty seconds total. When I spoke, they made faces of disgust even before the translation. I was just some hideous screeching thing that was trying to intrude into their little paradise.

They kept trying to ask what my business was and where I was going, but I said that was not their concern. They demanded to have handlers escort me and that I give them a report of my findings. Finally, I had enough.

“Look, I don’t know which System you think you’re in, but this isn’t Rettosian territory. Maris-To is Arch Minister here. He controls the Navy. There’s like fifty cruisers, three hundred destroyers, and I think even a battleship floating out there just waiting to turn this crappy city into a lot of dangerous space debris. You’re going to give me unlimited access and I’m not going to debate this any further,” I threatened.

The clerk stumbled over that translation. I probably should have spoken slower but I got caught up in the moment.

The Rettosians all finally turned to me, and I scowled my most confident scowl, like I really had the might of the Central Authority behind me.

“If you’re going to enter any homes or question any citizens, they want to be present,” the clerk translated after some time.

I laughed.

“You don’t understand. You aren’t citizens of this city. This city is just a pimple on the stinking ass of Belvaille. I will go wherever my duties take me and perform whatever work I deem necessary,” I said.

The Rettosians all leaned in to whisper to one another.

“We hereby grant you entrance to Floloria,” the clerk said.

Man, they couldn’t even admit defeat without being cocky.

I turned to go and one of them said something.

“Where did you get that pistol?” the clerk asked.

I looked down, having forgotten it was on my side.

I was still a little wary of carrying Gun, but one of my biggest troubles as a professional thug was that I was clumsy and had horrible accuracy with firearms. Most of my firefights ended with me running out of ammunition and the walls suffering the vast majority of my abuse.

I knew Gun was capable of being absurdly accurate—my eyeballs could attest to it. Though I also brought my fancy blunderbuss, just in case.

“I got the pistol from a Rettosian I murdered,” I said quite truthfully.





CHAPTER 38




Once the golden doors were opened and I was allowed into the heaven of Floloria, I was quite disappointed.

It was just like old Belvaille had been back in its earliest days.

A space station had fixed dimensions. You’re never going to make it bigger. So the most economical use of space was a crapload of rectangular buildings crisscrossed by streets.

That’s what Floloria was. Belvaille, nowadays, was a kaleidoscope of architectural magic. Only a handful of buildings, like mine, were originals from Belvaille’s past: boring steel squares.

Floloria’s structures weren’t even steel. They knew they had protection from external forces because of the shield covering the city, so the buildings were some thin aluminum sheeting. There were actual dents in a lot of buildings—probably from people ramming their heads into the walls screaming, “Why is this city so ugly?”

I felt pretty smug walking around at first. I mean this was their great Rettosian city?

After a while I realized I totally stood out here and I should probably keep my smugness to myself. Every single person was a Rettosian wearing weirdo Rettosian clothes. To say I felt unwelcome was an understatement.

I walked around for about an hour, trying to lose any tails which had been following me, and trying to get acquainted with the street patterns.

Besides all the mean looks I received, I felt very uncomfortable and I couldn’t put my finger on why. Finally, it hit me. I had lived probably 99% of my life on Belvaille. Not even Belvaille System, but the actual city. A lot of my influence, street credibility, and even power, came from my knowledge of Belvaille’s inner workings.

I knew who bought what, who sold what, who was in debt to whom. I knew the nobles, I knew the gangs, I knew the crooks, the pimps, the cops, and where you could buy a good cup of spiked coffee. I knew who sold drugs, who bought drugs, who preached, who prayed, and who was a false prophet. I’d seen something like twenty generations grow up, grow old, and die on that city.

Here, I was a fat guy with fake credentials. I was nothing.

I was an alien on an alien city surrounded by aliens—and I felt it. It was clear this entire species didn’t want me here. They thought I was a lesser being.

It’s an ugly feeling. When I was on Mapposh 48 and an angry mob was chasing me through the streets, it was adrenaline and fear that pushed me. But here it was a lingering unease.



Floloria had a small dock comprised of a handful of warehouses. I knew the location where Porj’s casket had been delivered.

I waited around and tried, unsuccessfully, to make myself inconspicuous. Fortunately, there weren’t many people here.

After some time, I saw one of the oddest creatures I’d ever seen, walking out carrying Porj’s little casket. The creature was two burly legs and a burly arm where it’s chest should have been. It looked like a triangle of limbs. It didn’t wear clothes and had no…anything that I could see. No neck, or eyes, or butt, or mouth, just three giant appendages.

It carried the trunk resting in its palm quite easily. I would say over its head, but it didn’t have a head. It had a thick forearm for a torso. It ended in a wrist and hand. Its knuckles were about as wide as my whole upper body and so were its feet.

As I watched it pound along the sidewalk with those powerful legs, I idly thought it would make a great glocken player. I was across the street from it, but guessed it to be maybe seven feet tall—taller if it stretched its hand fully upright. It was solid muscle.

I tried to keep up with the trippendage but it was very fast. It wasn’t particularly graceful, but considering it was carrying a casket, it was doing alright.

I worried I was going to lose it, but once it got into sidewalks with more foot traffic, it slowed down considerably so as not to run people over.

How did it even see where it was going?

It wound its way through the city and I was beginning to get tired chasing it.

Fortunately, Floloria wasn’t all that big of a space station so it eventually came to a non-descript box of a building and gave the door a gentle kick.

The door was opened a moment later, and the trippendage entered the building, the door closing behind it.

This was actually further than I thought I would get. I hadn’t really planned on what would happen after landing here. I had no authority at all. I couldn’t leave without their say-so. They probably had people watching me. And my presence wasn’t especially appreciated.

I looked over the aluminum building, hoping for a sign. Literally some sign like, “Hey, you should root through the trashcan out back where we dump out all our secret plans such as why we have corpses of glocken players.”

I was an old man.

I didn’t especially look it, but I was. But when my body was remade, everything except my brain—and white hair—had been changed. So I still had the drive and impulses of a young idiot. For those of you who are young, you have no idea how reckless you are until you get older. For those of you who are older and get magically turned young again by a level-ten mutant, all I can say is that you get to watch yourself occasionally acting like a moron but can’t stop it.

I walked across the street and knocked on the door. I decided to just wing it like I did at the port. I was going to trust in my ability to fast talk.

The door was opened and inside it was almost crypt-like dark. I hurried in before anyone could ask, or shut the door.

There was a small person inside. I got the sense it was a Rettosian, but absolutely tiny, even smaller than Porj had been, about two feet tall. His skin was unlike that of most Rettosians, which seemed to flow slowly. His was a hasty, multi-colored storm on his body.

There was a hallway and a light at the end. I ignored the little person at the door and walked in like a man with a purpose. I would use the Factotum angle. Demand they tell me what was going on.

The room was large and filled with technological equipment. It looked decidedly medical based on all my experience recovering in hospitals.

I saw the trippendage. It had placed Porj’s coffin on a table and the lid had been removed.

There was also a large, transparent, gelatinous…thing that was filled with what looked like blood vessels or oversized nerve cells. It was eight feet tall, light orange, and pulsated dully.

There was also a truly ancient Rettosian. His skin was no longer liquid, he had dried solid, and was cracked and gray. His limbs were so thin that they looked like sticks. His head was tilted to the side and he had to wear a neck brace to keep his skull from breaking his spine with its weight. He sat in a glowing, beeping, hi-tech chair and overall he reminded me a bit of Delovoa.

The last person was a Colmarian man in a dark suit, all-encompassing dark sunglasses, and a dark hat. It was none other than the Reskin Sleepers’ head coach and general manager, Irune!

“Hello, Hank,” he said with a slight smile, as if he weren’t at all surprised to see me and we were old pals. He had a leaden voice.

“Uh, hi,” I said, ignoring the corpse and strange creatures in front of me.

Irune turned to the old man on the chair and said something that was clearly in Rettosian.

The chair-bound Rettosian then spoke, but it was all wheezy air. The man was so elderly his vocal chords were shriveled and dead. A careful listener might have made sense of what he said—if they could speak Rettosian.

He slowly pressed a button on his chair and then:

Krooosh!

I felt a sucking in my midsection like I was being folded in half. The whole room’s interior smeared like it was a wet painting and the artist was dragging a damp cloth across it.

Next thing I knew I found myself in a room on a ship. It was clearly a spaceship because there were a whole set of windows and I could see stars and other ships outside. If it was a space station, the shield would block such a view.

Everyone was here. Porj’s coffin, the trippendage, the blob-thing, Irune, and I even saw the little Rettosian that had answered the door.

The room was clean and nearly empty. It just had a table for Porj’s coffin.

“Right,” I began. “I have some questions. Um. Give me a second to collect my thoughts.”

But the old man didn’t give me a second and pressed another button.

I felt a pain in my back and the room smeared again.

I was back in the original, dark room on Floloria. The only difference was that Porj’s casket was gone, Irune was gone, and the old Rettosian was gone.

Oh, and the trippendage took that big hand of his and made a fist.





CHAPTER 39




The trippendage couldn’t punch very well since it had no chest or shoulders. It could only move its fist forward and backwards.

It smacked me overhand, and while not especially painful, it had enough force to make me bend my legs from the shock.

I grabbed my blunderbuss and fired. I hit its thumb, but didn’t even break the skin. That was my only shot. I dropped the blunderbuss and pulled out Gun from my hip holster. I pressed where the trigger should be but nothing happened.

“Shoot!” I yelled.

“Shoot who?” Gun asked.

“Him! That thing.”

“Why?” Gun said, clearly not appreciating the gravity of the situation.

While I was pointing, the little Rettosian jumped up and wrapped his arms and legs around my forearm.

He buried his head down and squeezed. I thought it was a very peculiar tactic, since the little Rettosian was far too small to hurt me. But those swirling liquid patterns I saw on his body began to swirl faster—and hotter. He started glowing and I could actually feel the heat.

I normally considered myself fireproof. Just another perk of my Ontakian heritage. But this Rettosian must have been creating some kind of chemical burn with his skin, and I wasn’t resistant.

I began shaking my arm frantically, but he wasn’t letting go. His whole body was now illuminating the room and I could not only feel him burning my flesh, I could smell it.

I put my left hand on his head to try and wrench free, but he had a tremendous grip for such a small person.

I finally banged him against the table and he let go and fell to the ground, where he hissed at me. I saw even his tongue was glowing hot.

My arm was steaming and the skin was melted and red in some patches.

I didn’t have much time to contemplate what scars I would have when I suddenly found myself inside the gelatinous orange creature.

I could see out and everything. The world looked warped and wobbly.

I tried to move around and get out, but the blob mimicked my motions. When I raised my left arm it kept me encased inside. I lifted my knees and it just bulged out around me.

I began flailing because I knew I was going to run out of air and I was pretty sure breathing this blob was bad news. I twirled around slowly inside the creature but couldn’t gain any purchase or enough momentum to free myself.

All around me were those nerves or blood vessels, but as I tried to snatch at them, they just squirted out of my grasp—they were too thin and pliable. I was in a liquid world and my weight and strength were completely negated.

I had maybe a half-breath in my lungs when I had been engulfed and it was going fast. As I exhaled now and then I saw the bubbles ripple and pass away to the surface where they were expelled.

The table was nearby, but I couldn’t reach it. It was only a few feet away but I had turned myself upside down. Inspiration struck and I took hold of my jacket and ripped it off. Holding it between both hands I dragged it up and down like a shovel. I was trying to get as much surface area as I could to make it difficult for the creature to mimic me.

When I scooped up and down, there were quick pockets of air as the creature tried to fill in the gaps. I managed to get a few gulps of oxygen so at least I wasn’t in suffocation mode.

It either figured immobilizing my legs was the most important or it simply couldn’t contain the scoop-like jacket, but I was finally able to grab hold of the table with one hand because my arms were now outside the blob.

I looked around and could see all the medical equipment, the trippendage, and the little burning Rettosian. Those two seemed to be waiting patiently for their turns to attack me again.

I don’t know how I thought of it, but I took hold of the table with both hands, and pulled in my feet. I was basically squatting on the table—and covered by a goo monster.

But using my legs I pushed off as hard as I could and reached out with my hands.

The creature had to rearrange itself quickly to encircle my new shape and we splashed to the ground. I didn’t touch, because the orange blob essentially cushioned my landing, but I did manage to propel myself all the way to the little Rettosian, who I was now holding in my two hands.

His eyes went wide finding himself inside the creature and in my grasp. He kicked and bucked but he wasn’t going anywhere.

However, he turned on the juice and started glowing again. I could feel my hands burning.

As I hoped when I made this desperate play, I could see my captor bubbling around the Rettosian. The temperature was too much for its liquid.

The orange blob reformed itself so my hands and the Rettosian were outside of its body. I was getting burnt and suffocated. But I pulled the Rettosian back in and held him to my chest.

The blob would either have to let us both go or keep boiling.

The heat was getting extreme and I felt my chest, thighs, hands, and neck being severely burned.

I cracked open an eye to see all the nerve cells moving to the extreme outsides of the creature. The bubbles were becoming violent when I suddenly felt air on my face and then:

Pop!

I landed on the ground and a shower of orange goo splattered everywhere.

I was panting for air. Exhausted and almost in shock from the burns.

Fortunately, the Rettosian pocket oven was also in bad shape and lying next to me too tired to move.

But the trippendage was another story.

It had learned that punching me wasn’t all that successful so it smacked me like a big fly swatter. Slap! Slap! Slap!

I was prone on the ground, recovering from burns and asphyxiation, while I continued to get swatted by an oversized hand. I was too tired to care much and it frankly didn’t hurt nearly as bad as my burns.

The trippendage seemed to notice that and it took its big hand, held up its index finger, and poked me hard in the stomach. It then twisted its finger, pinning me to the floor.

Okay, that hurt!

I pushed the finger off my stomach and rolled on my side. The trippendage kept poking at me as I tried to get to my feet, and it knocked me down twice.

I finally stood and turned around in time to see three fingers kind of upright over my head and the middle finger and thumb crossed. It looked familiar.

Wham!

It let go of its middle finger and flicked my face like I was a booger it was trying to get rid of. My head whipped back practically off my neck. I think my brain pancaked against my skull because I was completely stunned.

The trippendage winded up to flick my head again.

I had barely enough consciousness to step to the side as the middle finger came whooshing past.

A four-foot finger flicking past your ear at high speed sounds a lot like, “Wake up, stupid!”

I recovered Gun from where I dropped him and pointed it at the trippendage.

“Do you like to travel?” Gun asked me.

With Gun still in my hand I rushed the trippendage and grabbed it around the palm.

The fingers clamped down on me and it had my entire upper body in its hand.

“What are you doing?” Gun asked pleasantly.

I tried to step on the trippendage’s feet, but they were huge. It then tried stepping on my feet. We jockeyed around, kicking at each other. I felt I outweighed it significantly, but it was hard to get the upper hand against a giant hand.

“Hank?” I heard Gun ask as my head was being smushed.

“Yeah?”

“What are you doing?”

“Arm wrestling!”

I pushed and pulled and tried to lift the trippendage, but I just couldn’t get any leverage. It had no weak points. I couldn’t jab it in the eyes. I couldn’t punch its kidneys. Its kneecaps were about the size of car tires.

It couldn’t do much to me either.

We just careened around the room, knocking over and demolishing machines.

“Hank, are you still there?” Gun asked.

I was trying to put the trippendage’s middle finger in a headlock.

“What?” I yelled.

“Oh. You were quiet. I wasn’t sure. What color is the sky here?”

I felt Gun might make a somewhat interesting topic of conversation at the Gent Club or when trying to impress a lady, but other than that, I think from now on I would leave him at home.

The trippendage and I broke apart. We were both getting tired. Maybe I could give it carpal tunnel if I let it bash me a thousand more times.

I didn’t think I could outrun the creature and I was worried about fighting it on the street. The Rettosians would hardly take my side.

I shifted Gun to my left hand. I should have dropped or holstered him, but I wasn’t thinking at full capacity after being head-flicked.

I rushed forward and the trippendage made a claw-like pose in anticipation.

I reached up and grabbed its ring finger, ignoring the pain of my wrecked skin. This had not been a very good plan because the creature began crushing me like I was a stress ball.

“Hank?” Gun asked.

“What? What? I’m busy!” I yelled.

“Are you still dealing with that hand?”

“Yes!”

“Where are you now?” Gun asked.

“Inside a building. Just leave me alone for a minute.”

“Okay. But if you exit can it follow you out?” Gun asked. “It seems awful large.”

It was hard to strategize while I was getting sweaty-palmed to death, but Gun had a point. I had watched the trippendage knock on the door with its foot to get in. And the door’s control panel used recessed buttons far too tiny to be pressed by this thing’s fingers.

I pushed up as hard as I could to get free and hastily walked backwards, holstering Gun. The trippendage was tired too, and waited for me to attack again.

Instead, I turned and ran down the hall, fumbled with the door, and exited.

Once outside, I looked up.

“The sky looks like a normal space station shield,” I told Gun. “Huh. Floloria’s is actually kind of yellow. I didn’t notice that.”





CHAPTER 40




“I don’t understand why you’re upset with me,” Gun said.

“Because when I point you at someone—or something—I expect you to shoot,” I said, as I hurried along the Flolorian streets.

“I’m always pointed at something. Do you want me to be firing all the time?” Gun asked.

“Did you even know what was going on there?” I asked him.

“No. I told you I don’t pay much attention to such things.”

“Every time I get in a gunfight I can’t stop and explain. I’ll get murdered,” I said.

“You didn’t get murdered back there. Or did you? Are you alive?” Gun asked.

“Yes. For the moment. And I probably would have thought of the door eventually. Look, we’ll go over this some other time,” I said.

I was feeling very conspicuous being the only non-Rettosian on the street; the only non-Rettosian who had recently suffered third-degree burns; and the only non-Rettosian running along arguing with his pistol.

I was a bit worried that when I had somehow travelled to that other ship, Irune or that crusty Rettosian were now taking the opportunity to tele back to Floloria to let everyone know I was a big meanie. It wouldn’t take them long to actually check my non-existent credentials.

Even if that didn’t happen, the trippendage could mash the buttons enough times that the door finally opened and it could come after me.

I had to get off the space station.

I called Zzzho but he said he was carrying a passenger. He said the Flolorian authorities made him disembark when he dropped me off so he figured he might as well take on some fares while he waited. I told him to divert and pick me up. I would pay for the fee, the difference, and would owe him a favor.

There was a brief negotiation as the passenger, a minor gang member who provided protection on a retail barge, chimed in on how much he wanted in exchange for being inconvenienced.

The talks were going bad and the gang member at one point tried to say he wasn’t going to fly anywhere he didn’t want to.

I explained that Zzzho was a gas cloud and the thug couldn’t exactly commandeer the ship that was designed for incorporeal entities, and Zzzho could just shove himself up the thug’s nostrils and electrocute his brain.

We agreed on ten grand for both parties.

Fortunately, they weren’t terribly far away, but it was still going to take them over an hour to get here.

All the signs on buildings were in Rettosian. It was a flowery, floaty script that matched their sound and biology and snootiness. It not only had three-dimensional lettering, but the letters moved, much like the skin of a Rettosian. Even the humblest signs looked like a mini-hallucination repeating on a loop.

I needed food, badly.

I burst into the first building I came to and there were a half-dozen Rettosians reclining in chairs with strange apparatus all around them and what looked like Colmarian attendants nearby. I couldn’t even guess what was going on here. Was it a hair salon? Was it a skin salon? Was it a massage parlor? No clue.

The Rettosians all seemed to be indignant-bordering-horrified that I was there. I stupidly tried asking where a restaurant was, but that just made them cringe hearing my vulgar words.

I then tried mimicking eating by moving my hand to my mouth, fake chewing, and rubbing my tummy.

One of the Rettosians vomited upon seeing that and the nearest Colmarian literally shooed me out the door. He kept saying something like “gli-glow-gliche,” over and over as he removed me.

“Do you speak Rettosian, Gun?” I asked Gun, but he didn’t answer.

I removed him from my holster.

“Hey, do you speak Rettosian?” I repeated.

“What’s that?” he answered.

“Did you hear what they were saying?”

“Who?”

I sighed and put Gun away and went to the next building.

I didn’t have any success in five more attempts and was beginning to wonder if Rettosians actually ate food.

It was getting close to time for Zzzho to pick me up and I decided to head to the port. Being really hungry in space was still better than dying here with a full belly.

I had to go through one of the administration buildings to reach the port and I tried to put my head down and move as quickly as possible. Not just to avoid any interactions, but to hide the fact I was burnt to a crisp.

I rounded a corner and there was the Harbormaster, two Rettosians wearing incredibly elegant robes, and three guards with long rifles.

The Rettosians in robes were wearing what I had seen before on wealthy diplomats. The surfaces of the robes bubbled and eddied with their liquid skin, and in between were fantastic jewels and metals.

They took turns speaking to me in Rettosian and seemed both angry and pompous. The guards had their guns pointed down but were tense.

They had to know I couldn’t understand them, but they didn’t seem to care. Maybe it was just protocol.

I pulled out Gun and pointed it at one of the robed individuals. My hope was that they valued their lives far more than mine and I could bluff my way out of here.

“Gli Glow Gliche,” I said, in my best approximation of what I heard at the skin parlor. I hoped that meant some version of “get out.” I saw from their puzzled expressions that my accented version meant nothing whatsoever.

“Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang!” Gun said.

All the Rettosians dropped!

I instantly fell to my knees. Not because I had been shot or anything. I just lost power. I think I fainted. I was down on all fours and shook my head a bit and finally managed to get myself together.

“What did you do?” I asked Gun.

“Shot them.”

“Why did you do that? I just wanted to threaten them!”

“You got mad at me for not shooting last time,” Gun explained.

I went and turned over the body of the Harbormaster. He had a tiny hole right between his eyebrows. I looked on the back of his skull and instead of a huge exit wound, like you’d normally see with a projectile, it was the same size hole as the front.

The rest were similarly shot and very dead.

“Hey, don’t shoot unless I say ‘shoot,’ okay?”

I began pulling the bodies out of the hallway into the closest office. It was thankfully empty because everyone who had formerly been inside now had holes through their heads.



Despite me having murdered some seemingly important officials, it wasn’t very difficult to leave the station.

The few Rettosians I saw treated me like I was a piece of furniture. One captain disembarking from another ship actually handed me some trash without even acknowledging me.

I boarded my taxi, thankful I got out before the bodies were discovered.

Zzzho didn’t say much and the thug who was my co-passenger didn’t say much. If I smelled like burnt meat and appeared like burnt meat, they kept their observations to themselves.

We had been in space for about five minutes when Zzzho finally spoke up.

“Hey, I’m getting an urgent message from Floloria. They want us to turn around,” he said.

“Eh, ignore it,” I answered, as if nothing was wrong. “You know how it is, once people hang out with me, they can’t get enough.”

“They seem pretty upset,” Zzzho added.

“I don’t want no trouble,” the crook next to me said, looking through the small windows like he could see if we were being followed.

“It’s not as if Floloria has cannons or a fleet,” I said, hoping Floloria didn’t have cannons or a fleet.

“You paid me to share a cab, not get in a fight,” the thug replied.

“I owe you ten grand. It can be for your time or your funeral,” I said, and I pulled out Gun and rested him on my lap. I made sure not to point him directly at anyone.

“Should I shoot someone now?” Gun asked.

“No. No,” I said, losing a bit of my cool when I thought of what a hole in the taxi would do. “We’re just going to have a nice, quiet ride.”





CHAPTER 41




“Where have you been?” Candar asked.

“Nowhere. Why?”

“You missed a bunch of practices.”

“I know,” I said, moving past him to get to my locker.

“Why is your skin all twisted? You look like you were in a fire.”

“I do?”

“Get cleaned up and on the field. We have to go over what plays we can use.”

“I’m going to be in rehab for a bit. I’m hurt,” I said.

“Talk to Magda, then. See what she says about getting injured on your own time and rehabilitated on ours,” Candar threatened.

“What’s it matter? If I’m hurt, I’m hurt. If I can’t throw a token it doesn’t matter if it happened in my sleep or on the field,” I said, walking away.



I was wearing a fat suit.

Not a suit that made me fat, but a synth body suit insulated with animal lard. They even had my face wrapped up and wired tight.

The rehabilitation people had figured it was the best way to get my body to heal my burns. No one could find Delovoa, but he had passed on some information about me.

I spoke to Garm and general manager Cliston and told them what I found on Floloria. Previously, my plan was to ask the Historians to hack the teles of the players who “retired” from other teams, but I wasn’t sure it was necessary now. I was guessing they weren’t retired, they were dead.

“So what do you think it’s all about?” Garm asked.

“I thought it was gambling related before, but I think it’s Irune. The guy put together the best team in the galaxy and started killing players from the competition. Maybe it’s also gambling, but it would be a miracle if the Reskin Sleepers didn’t win the Championship this year. That’s partially due to a lot of dead opposing players. He was at the building where Porj’s corpse was delivered, though not sure what he wanted with it.”

“What should our team do to prepare?” Cliston asked.

“You should hire more security and put out word that if players are personally contacted with outrageous counter-offers from other teams, it might very well be a plot to kill them,” I said.

“I think it’s a bad idea to tell the team that players are being murdered,” Garm said. “The game is stressful enough as it is.”

“What’s the Rettosian angle?” Cliston asked.

“I think they’re just the facilitators providing technology to get this done. They teleported a whole room. I don’t know how, but they did,” I said.

“Teleported?” Garm asked.

“Yeah, remember that Messahn battlesuit, 19-10? It was a relic from the civil war. It could teleport. Kind of like a Portal, but just for one person. Well, the Rettosians on Floloria moved the entire contents of a room and then moved some of us back. If they can do that, it’s no wonder they can abduct players,” I said.

“How are we supposed to deal with that from a security standpoint?” Garm asked.

“I don’t know if we have to deal with them. If I can get some real proof, Rendrae can print it. Can you imagine the blowback if people found out that Irune and the Rettosians are murdering glocken players? We wouldn’t have to do anything,” I said.

I also told Cliston what the Ank had said. We would be playing the Reskin Sleepers again. Maybe in the Championship. I then asked sports agent Cliston to negotiate a raise before I had to play the best team in the galaxy. The raise was denied.

I tried to tele Delovoa to get his opinion on things, but I couldn’t reach him.

Magda came in, saw me in my fat suit, and demanded I be fined.

General manager Cliston, for once, stood up for me and said I had given valuable information on our opponents, which he would be sharing with Magda later.



I went back to my place to lie around in my fat suit soaking up cholesterol.

I also gathered a huge pile of food and put it on my stomach as I stared at the ceiling above my bed.

I heard the doorbell ring but I ignored it.

A moment later I heard MTB.

“Factotum 00003, on your feet,” he said.

There were a bunch of C.A. in my bedroom looking mean and official. Mostly mean. But MTB wasn’t in his usual Inspector’s outfit. He was wearing his dress uniform, which was all kinds of spiffy and menacing.

Uh oh.

I stayed as calm as possible as I rolled off the bed, my food and containers splashing to the floor.

“What can I do for you, Inspector?” I asked.

“Follow me, please.”

We walked into the hall and into my living room, with the guards falling in step behind me.

My living room was absolutely packed with C.A. It was like graduation day at the academy.

However, there was one person seated who stood out. He was not a military man. He was a noble.

A Central Authority noble.

I knew they existed. I knew their names. But I had never actually met one in person before.

He was sitting in my chair smoking what was clearly a mild narcotic—I was familiar with the odor. He had a chest full of medals, and a heraldry that was some kind of green bird. He was fit and young and handsome.

“May I present Factotum 00003,” MTB said to the man. MTB then turned to me and said, “Overlord of Defense, Murdaere Omno.”

Well, hot damn. This was the head of the entire Central Authority! Murdaere was actually part of his title, as if to dispel any illusions on what he could and would do in the course of business.

The noble made the smallest of gestures without looking at me.

“Have a seat,” MTB said, like it wasn’t my house.

“We’re having an issue with some Portals,” Omno said.

Of the billion things I thought might be spoken, that wasn’t one of them. I didn’t even answer because I figured there must be more.

But he looked at me, as if he expected a response.

“Portals?” I asked dimly.

“Yes, three Portals have ceased to function.”

That was big news. Belvaille didn’t exist without Portals, and the solar systems those Portals led to didn’t exist either. Still:

“Three isn’t very many, is it? We have hundreds. Or thousands,” I said. I wasn’t entirely sure.

The Murdaere gave me a withering glance.

“The connected Systems are of strategic importance. And you can understand the nobles who control them want them restored.”

This was so beyond my expertise. I really didn’t have a clue why he was talking to me.

“So, uh, have you tried fixing them?” I asked, trying to be helpful.

“No one can find Delovoa and he’s got some damn killer robots in the Portals,” MTB said.

Delovoa had installed murder bots inside some of the Portals. He said it was to keep out looters but I think it was for job security.

“Huh,” I said, still not sure where this was going.

“I brought this up with the Arch Minister and he mentioned you might be of service,” Omno said.

I put my bandaged, fat-suited hands up.

“I don’t know the first thing about Portals. What could I possibly do?” I said.

MTB gave me a shocked expression. The guards in the room gave me shocked expressions. Hell, even Omno seemed surprised. They all understood something I did not:

The Arch Minister had basically told me to do something and I was saying no.

It didn’t matter if I couldn’t do it. He was the monarch of Belvaille. I had better try.

“What I mean is, I’m not sure how I could help, at this moment. But I will look into it and give it my 100% undivided attention,” I said, smiling so hard a wire snapped on my mouth brace.

“See that you do. We can provide you with the details,” Omno said, as he stood up.

The C.A. marched out of my house and I exhaled so hard I almost blew down a wall. MTB waited behind and closed the door after they had left.

“What am I supposed to do with this, MTB? I’m a glocken player. And not even a good one,” I said.

“Stank Delicious, I heard,” he said, scratching his head. “What I want to know is, I got this complaint on my desk. Seems the Premier, Vice Premier, Harbormaster and some guards were knocked off on Floloria.”

“Who are they?” I asked, mildly surprised.

“The people you met when you went to Floloria. They were killed slightly after you arrived and slightly before you left.

“Do I look like some assassin? What am I, an expert marksman to shoot all those people?” I asked, exasperated.

“I didn’t say they were shot.”

Hmm. I kept forgetting MTB knew me pretty well and was a cop to the core.

“Well, I was assuming they weren’t drowned on a space station. My mistake.”

“Could be a big mistake. What were you doing there? Why did you want them gone? The Rettosians aren’t exactly nobles, but they can still kick up quite a lot of dust. Especially when their Premier is gunned down.”

“I didn’t say I met anyone or was anywhere. That’s Factotum business,” I said firmly.

“Hank, that Factotum crap don’t mean nothing to me. I can arrest you for smelling bad and dressing in a rubber condom,” he said at my outfit.

“MTB, are you really going to try and put the screws to me when your Murdaere just came in here to relay a job from the Arch Minister?” I asked.

MTB smiled and shook his head.

“You’re always dancing, aren’t you, Hank? One of these days you’re going to trip and fall.”

“I don’t know how many times I have to explain to you that we’re on the same side, MTB, just different methods. Besides, I can’t dance.”





CHAPTER 42




There was no way I was going inside a Portal to fight some combat robots just because Arch Minister Maris-To mentioned my name in passing.

Delovoa made lethal products on accident and those bots had kept the Portals tamper-free for at least a century, so they must be pretty effective. I’d probably have to push my way past a pile of corpses just to get inside.

Besides, what was I supposed to do? The Portals were the most advanced technology left in the entire galaxy—at least that I was aware of. Was I supposed to go in there, fight some robots, and then pick my nose and hope that fixed the Portals?

There were only a handful of people who could repair those contraptions and one of them was my pal and creator of the murder bots. I’d just wait until Delovoa got back. He was probably off on a bender somewhere or putting chrome rims on his wheelchair.

I said I would give 100% to fixing the Portals, but I didn’t say when.



This was it. The Super Class glocken Championship was scheduled.

The Reskin Sleepers vs. the Belvaille Glocken Team.

The Reskin Sleepers were a given. Even if our record hadn’t put us in second place, even if the Ank hadn’t effectively guaranteed we would play them, no other team wanted to play them.

Our own schedule was shortened dramatically because any team that the Reskin Sleepers played first, usually ended up with half their players retiring, incapacitated, or dead.

At training camp, we studied the Reskin Sleepers in great detail.

I also set up a simple trade with Rendrae. He provided secret practice videos of the Sleepers and I got him exclusive interviews with Kitt, Candar, and Magda Strongarm.

I don’t know how he got the videos and I didn’t ask.

We watched their last games back-to-back with their practice videos.

The practices alone made it clear. They were doing all the same exercises and activities we did, just a hundred times better.

We sat there watching the videos and Candar was full of ideas on how we might triumph against this unstoppable team. I was beginning to think that Candar wasn’t just an eternal optimist, he was actually hallucinatory.

The Reskin Sleepers were positively going to slaughter us. Even hinting to the contrary was absurd.

I was called in to talk with Cliston after the videos.

In his office with him were Garm and Magda Strongarm.

“Great, now what did I do?” I asked.

Magda hit me with her metal bar and told me to shut up and sit down.

“I’m afraid I haven’t been entirely honest about your employment here,” Cliston said.

“You mean I wasn’t hired because of my amazing glocken skills?” I asked, astonished.

“We need you to take out some of the Reskin players,” Garm said.

“I hope you mean take them out to dinner,” I said.

“You don’t have to kill them. But it seems clear that the Reskin Sleepers organization is working to make it so they win the Championship,” Cliston said.

“They’ve succeeded. You’d have to eliminate most of their team for us to have a chance,” I said.

“The only reason I came on as coach is because he would be general manager and because I was promised a hit squad that could work behind-the-scenes,” Magda said. “This stuff goes on all the time and I’ve lost countless games and more than a few Championships because another team or some gambling hall or investing cooperative outbid us when it came time to pay for arm-breaking. Coaching is part of the game, players are part of the game, managing your front office, and managing your back office. I like to call this the ‘back alley’ part of Super Class.”

“I’d need an army and I’d need info and I’d need time,” I said.

“I got your information. I’ve been following our main rivals all season, getting their locations and weaknesses. Rendrae and Oxobox have also been helping,” Garm said.

“You have time. The Reskin Sleepers are in transit,” Magda said.

“Procon Hobb would have to know. This could reflect on him,” I said, crossing my arms.

“Procon Hobb…does not wish to be in second place,” Cliston said delicately.

“Whoever you don’t stop from playing is going to show up on that field and beat us into the ground. Beat you into the ground. It’s a preemptive strike,” Garm said.

“I have a job from the Arch Minister himself,” I stated. I said it mostly to brag, but I also didn’t know how to approach trying to kidnap a Super Class glocken player.

“You can do both, the Reskin Sleepers won’t be in Belvaille for another month and the Championship is a month after that,” Magda said.

“Does this job pay anything? Or are you going to try and lump all this under my existing contracts?” I asked.

“One hundred million for each starting player removed from their roster. Fifty million for each secondary or defender,” Cliston said.

My eyes started watering.

“You could almost hire the Quadrad for that much,” I said, to fill the silence.

“He has hired the Quadrad,” Garm said. “You think Kitt and I are here randomly?”

“So Kitt is a Quadrad? I guess I’m not surprised. It seems like the only people I have messy, compromising, complicated sex with are Quadrad. I should start charging your organization escort fees,” I said.





CHAPTER 43




Some weeks passed, and I was healing well, going over the Quadrad surveillance information on the Reskin Sleepers, and pretending to pay attention at practice.

I tried getting in touch with Delovoa a few more times but there was no sign of him. At first I was worried that he might also have been kidnapped, what with so many players gone missing. But no one in their right mind would try and mess with Delovoa. He still had a reputation as a dangerous lunatic. Probably because he was one. I guessed he was off doing something unsavory.

For my scheme against the Sleepers, I needed help so I scheduled a meeting.

It required I use the services of a rival Factotum. The man’s name was Jipper. He was a decent guy, old, small, and very shrewd.

Every Factotum had their areas of expertise. I was known as someone who was close to the nobles because of my heraldry. I was also known as a person you couldn’t ignore because of my mutations. Jipper was a numbers and angles man. He might not get you out of a fight, but he could get you the best rates and returns.

He wasn’t my first choice, I didn’t like working with people who were that much smarter than me, but I didn’t choose him.

We chatted before the other guests arrived and I explained how I was going to present things.

Ulteem, the gambling Lord, showed up with ten of his security personnel. On top of his shoulders he wore a golden head with gems for eyes. It had no expression and was bald. I thought it was an intimidating prosthetic for a negotiation.

Shor-Nuss was the other gang boss and he came with eleven security personnel—these guys were always trying to one-up each other.

Shor-Nuss was a neck-breaker. He was portly, crude, and dangerous. He wore filthy clothes and carried numerous hand weapons that were rusty and bent and well-worn. His gang provided the security for the Reskin Sleepers when they were on Belvaille. I can’t say I knew much about him. From what I heard asking around, he was fairly intelligent, but far more violent. He had probably been hired by reputation alone to dissuade anyone from attempting what I was going to attempt.

We all met in a movie theater after it had closed for the night—you couldn’t get gang people to wake up before noon. I had the doors sealed and guarded.

“Right. So we all know each other. Jipper is Factotum for Shor-Nuss. I am Factotum for Ulteem. Anyone who isn’t one of us needs to leave this room,” I said.

The security guards all fidgeted, but the bosses agreed. It took them a good ten minutes to leave for some reason.

“Everyone put your tele in front of you on the floor and turn it off,” I said.

They did so reluctantly.

I took out a big metal box and powered it up. A light came on after a minute.

“Okay, so that green light means there’s no tele communication in this area and it’s being blocked—” I started.

“That’s a blue light,” Shor-Nuss said.

I looked at it.

“Yeah, it’s blue,” Jipper agreed.

“Blue, green, whatever. If it blinks off, that means someone has activated a tele and we all need to shut our traps,” I said.

“It doesn’t turn red?” Ulteem asked.

“No, it doesn’t turn red. It doesn’t turn mauve. It doesn’t sing a song. Listen to me. We aren’t supposed to be meeting like this. This is against royal decree. You two shouldn’t even see each other,” I said, pointing to Ulteem and Shor-Nuss. “It’s just supposed to be Factotums going back and forth over and over with at least one noble skimming off the top. But I don’t have time for all that.”

“Can you give my client an overview of what you’re proposing?” Jipper asked.

I took a deep breath and tried to remain calm. I was really putting my neck out there.

“Belvaille Glocken Team is going to be playing the Reskin Sleepers. Ulteem says our odds are hovering around 30:1 against us. But if some of the Reskin Sleepers players were injured, any bets you placed now could pay huge dividends if my team won,” I said.

“So why am I here?” Shor-Nuss asked.

“I know you’re doing security for the team. I’m saying if you took a powder and let me and maybe a small group slip by, we could hit the players and put them out for the Championship,” I replied.

“How much are you offering? Assuming my client is in fact the security,” Jipper asked.

“I know he is. I have Quadrad working with me on this,” I said.

That impressed everyone in the room. It wasn’t completely true, though. Garm said the Quadrad weren’t going to have any part of an attack on a Super Class glocken team. It had too many repercussions if it failed.

“But how much?” Shor-Nuss asked.

“I’m not paying anything—” I started.

“The hell with this!” Shor-Nuss said, rising from his chair.

“The pay will come from our winnings,” Ulteem stated calmly. That golden head really did have some psychological power.

“You can understand our concerns. My client is on the line for security and his reputation will be tarnished if this were to succeed. And there is always the messy proposition of splitting winnings. It’s clear to me that neither my client nor Ulteem could place these wagers or they would become suspects,” Jipper said.

“Ulteem already has people who have been dying to put money down on a fixed game,” I said.

“A 30:1 return sprinkled out across the galaxy. You figure an 85% fulfillment, with the rest going out to collections, and we split it with my investors 50/50 and then split it between us 50/50,” Ulteem said.

“How much capital are they willing to put down?” Jipper asked.

“Five billion easy. Ten at the high end,” Ulteem said.

I tried to remain stone-faced at those numbers. I wouldn’t see a credit from it, of course, but it was still amazing. I looked at the tele jammer to make sure the light was still nice and greenish-blue.

Jipper whispered something to Shor-Nuss and we sat waiting.

“Who all is going to be attacking the players?” Jipper asked.

“We need to remain a bit hushed on that,” I said. “Enough to get the job done.”

Jipper whispered again with Shor-Nuss and they went back and forth for some time.

“There’s a problem,” Jipper finally said.

“And what’s that?” I asked, already annoyed.

“We only do the outside security,” Shor-Nuss said. “They got a whole other group that handles inside. Including the player bodyguards.”

“Well, who is this other group?” I asked.

“Don’t know. I been doing this a year and I still ain’t sure. They do their own thing. They hand us the codes and manuals and we follow them. But they make all the rules. The security inside the training camp is a lot harder than outside. And no player ever leaves. You won’t get past them even if we walk you up personally to the front door,” Shor-Nuss stated.

“Do you know if the guards are Factotum?” I asked.

Jipper looked at me, surprised.

“Like Xandale’s Univox Factotal,” I continued. I was still wondering if he had a hand in things after seeing him on Mapposh 48 and around Porj’s condo.

“No, I don’t think so. They don’t act like that. More military,” Shor-Nuss said.

“Are they Rettosians?” I asked.

“Oh, no,” Shor-Nuss said quickly. “They’re nothing like them.”

I relaxed, but I wasn’t sure what to do next.

“But you know,” Shor-Nuss said, thinking, “they might be speaking Rettosian.”





CHAPTER 44




I walked into Cliston’s office to meet with Garm, Cliston, and someone I didn’t know.

The other guy was burly, young, and just reeked of stupid. I had been around con men long enough that I knew an easy mark when I saw one. He was staring at the furniture and fidgeting and seemed gee-gosh amazed at everything.

When I came in he took off his soiled hat and stood up to shake my hand.

“Wow, Hank, Stank Delicious! It’s an honor, sir!” He said.

He had a firm shake and he looked like he could bench press a small car.

“Who the hell is this guy?” I asked.

“You need help to pull off your job,” Garm said.

I was horrified she was mentioning it. I needed the utmost secrecy to try and infiltrate the Reskin Sleepers’ training camp. I wasn’t even sure I could trust Shor-Nuss or Ulteem and here she was blabbing about it to some random bumpkin.

“What’s that have to do with him?” I asked.

“He’s one of our third-string prospects,” Cliston said. “He has sufficient skills and more than sufficient enthusiasm.”

He was a glocken player!

“Why not Grah? Or even Garm?” I asked.

“Because no one else has the training and the Quadrad won’t let us participate,” Garm said.

“How much are they paying you?” I asked the man.

“I’ll work for free!” He said with a big stupid smile. He was enthusiastic.

“I can’t go in there with some glocken player. He’ll be a liability,” I said.

“You’re a glocken player,” Garm countered.

“I’m a bad glocken player. I’m great at breaking skulls. I’m not taking him,” I said.

“You’re running out of time. Besides, he comes from the volcanic planet of Duor,” Garm said, as if that mattered.

“Congratulations on having an inhospitable home world,” I snarled.

“Oh, it’s real hot, sir,” the bumpkin answered seriously.

Who was this guy?

“He’s almost completely fireproof,” Cliston said. “Just like you.”

I shrugged.

“We going to set ourselves on fire to distract them?” I asked.

“Pyrodite grenades. They can fill almost a thousand square feet with flames instantly,” Garm said, putting four very scary canisters on the table.

“You’re nuts. If I set the building on fire, the alarms will sound, everyone will pile out, and the emergency services will come and arrest me. The whole point is to sneak in, not try and burn the building down,” I said.

“I can show you how to cut the fire prevention measures and instant alarms,” Garm said.

“People can still tele for help,” I replied.

“Can you use your tele blocker that Delovoa built?” Cliston asked.

“That only works in a small area. Like a room. And it’s not even 100%,” I answered. I looked to the kid. “Hey, do you know what we’re talking about? Are you okay with trying to attack some fellow glocken players and put them out of commission?”

“I’d kill to get on the team, sir. And I mean that,” he answered.

From his expression, I believed him.



In the days before the Reskin Sleepers arrived in Belvaille, I had healed almost completely. Maybe I had a few more scars, but who was counting at this point?

I still couldn’t get ahold of Delovoa, but I had more to worry about.

I had two or three or four big concerns. I had to trust that Shor-Nuss would let me in and not double-cross me. I had to hope the new guy, whose name was Javter, would be capable of helping. I had to get in, bypass their extra layers of security, beat up some professional fighters to the point of them not being able to fight, and get out without anyone recognizing me.

Normally I wouldn’t get anywhere near such a half-assed mission. But the fact of the matter was I was going to have to do battle with these players on the field when they were ready and I was unarmed, or I could lob a bunch of grenades at them when they weren’t looking.

Given that those were my only two choices, I was going with the grenades.

Garm had provided me details on where the Sleepers would be training in preparation for our game. She also had the schematics on the building and gave me info on how to deactivate the fire systems.

I compared the blueprints with the ones I got from Shor-Nuss and they were the same. That would have been an easy test to see if he was trying to trick me.

The night of the raid, I checked over my gear with Cliston. I had eight Pyrodite grenades. I had three concussion grenades. I had one bomb that could take out a reinforced door or wall. I had two shotguns. Handcuffs. A toolkit. My tele jammer. And Gun.

I had a long talk with Gun and he was non-committal on this mission. Not because he didn’t approve. He hadn’t really listened to me or showed much interest. He was very esoteric.

“But what happens when someone dies?” Gun asked.

“I don’t know,” I said, annoyed our two-hour conversation had taken this turn.

“If you don’t know, how can you want me to shoot anyone? What if something terrible happens?” he asked.

“You’ve shot a lot of people, right?”

“Maybe. What if I only think I did? How do I know this is truly happening?” he asked.

“You know, Gun, sometimes you just got to say ‘Eat suck, suckface!’ and deal with the consequences,” I said profoundly.

Gun was quiet for a while.

“That makes no sense whatsoever.”



Cliston gave me a mask to wear.

“What’s this?” I asked.

“You need to conceal your identity,” he answered.

“I know, but this is a cartoon character. I’ve seen ads on my tele.”

“Does it matter what kind of mask it is?” Cliston asked.

“Well, yeah. I want it to be something scary, not something silly. I’ll look like a fool. Why couldn’t you make me one?” I asked.

“Because I need to be able to deny I provided assistance in the event the authorities question me,” Cliston said.

“You could lie.”

“Your butler and sports agent can lie, but not the general manager speaking to the Central Authority,” he stated firmly.

“Then don’t answer as the general manager. Only you and I know you’re ten different Clistons, and even I haven’t got them all figured out. Answer the door as the general manager and then speak as my butler. You do it all the time with me,” I said.

“That…is actually an excellent idea, sir.”

“Thanks. I guess there’s no time to make me a cool mask?” I asked.

“I don’t have the materials here, no.”

I looked at it.

“Well, maybe I’ll be too cute for them to shoot me.”





CHAPTER 45




We took my limo to the Reskin Sleepers’ headquarters.

It was in the far west of Belvaille and was one of the temporary facilities that away teams used. There weren’t many here because Belvaille simply didn’t have the space for empty gymnasiums when real estate was so expensive.

I did what Garm had indicated and cut the emergency responder signals. Amazingly enough, those controls were on the outside! That really blew my mind. You could just walk up to a building, break a cheap lock, and deactivate all their safety precautions.

I made a note to check on my building when and if I survived this.

Javter was with me and he was pumped, following me around like a bloodthirsty puppy dog.

When the switches were off, I told him to put on his disguise while I put on mine.

“Hey, where did you get that mask?” I asked him.

He had this yellow flaming monster face. It was very realistic and way better than my clown mask.

“I had it left over from a Thad Elon’s Day party I went to,” he said.

“What’s it supposed to be?” I asked.

“Thad Elon,” he shrugged, as if I should know that Thad Elon was some scary monster on his planet. But I guess if I grew up on a volcanic cinder, I wouldn’t be too thankful to the gods that brought me into existence.

“I hope you were practicing how to use a gun with Garm,” I said.

“No, I was doing teambuilding exercises with Kitt and Candar.”

Those horny bastards! So I had an oversexed accomplice trying to help me attack a fortified base full of Super Class creatures.

“What do you have for weapons?” I asked. He seemed woefully unprepared.

“These,” he said, and he took out a bag and opened it for me.

I actually took off my mask because I wasn’t sure what I was seeing.

“Why do you have a bunch of rocks?” I asked flatly.

“I can throw them,” Javter replied.

I looked at him and he seemed serious. They were rocks. I mean they were fairly big rocks, like five inches in diameter, but they were still rocks.

I wasn’t sure where to begin.

“You were listening to everything we were saying, right? There are people with firearms inside there,” I said impatiently.

“I don’t know how to use a gun. We don’t have guns where I come from. We throw rocks. Trust me, Stank—” he started.

“Don’t call me that.”

“Sorry. Trust me, Hank, I can hit stuff good with these.”



It was almost the setup for a joke.

A cartoon, a moron, and a bag of rocks walk into a trap…

Of course, I was a moron too for continuing. I hoped it wasn’t a trap but it certainly could be.

I was depending on Shor-Nuss to leave the side door unlocked and unguarded. Past that there were two more doors to get to the basement and then we were beyond his security and would have to deal with the inside team—whoever they were.

The back door was indeed open.

I took the opportunity to give Javter two Pyrodite grenades. He could use them if his rocks weren’t doing the trick.

“You are fireproof, right?” I asked.

“Yeah, up to about 900 degrees and I can hold my breath for almost fifteen minutes,” he said.

Huh, I hadn’t thought about that. We start chucking around fire grenades and I’m going to run out of air. I wasn’t sure how long I could hold my breath, but it sure as hell wasn’t fifteen minutes.

Javter’s planet must really blow if this is how he evolved: diving in lava lakes to harvest valuable rocks. No wonder he wanted to join the team so much. Getting beat up by Super Class glocken players was a huge improvement for him.

We tiptoed through the halls, which was pretty absurd considering we were dressed like perverted cartoons and the halls were completely lit.

The next door had a massive lock and if we were going to get double-crossed, this would be the place. We had a long hallway behind us and this mega door in front of us.

I punched in the code I was given and it beeped. Denied.

I tried it again. Nope.

I was pouring sweat now and I tried one more time. Slowly.

Success!

We hustled through the door, moved along a short hall, and cut a right down some stairs.

The security door here only had a simple lock that I ripped off.

Inside was the heating and electrical and pipe works of the building. It reminded me of when I worked in the sewers.

It was also where they did the laundry of professional glocken teams, so it smelled very similar to the sewers.

Now we had to just sneak past some guards we didn’t know anything about, find some players who could be anywhere, and try to beat them up even though we already knew they were better athletes than we were.

Good thing we had a bunch of rocks.





CHAPTER 46




The first room we came to was massive. I don’t know how they built it. It was like four stories deep. I had lost track of where we were in relation to the surface streets but I was surprised to see this room. You can’t exactly tunnel very far in a space station before you run into problems—like finding yourself in space.

I knew we would have difficulties getting across the room. Or more accurately, I would. It was connected and bisected with mesh-wire metal stairs. I was pretty sure those stairs couldn’t handle my weight.

“Where to now, Hank?” Javter said.

“Don’t use my real name. We’re supposed to be in disguise,” I answered.

“What should I call you? Stank?”

I looked at him to see if he was serious, but he was wearing a mask.

“No. Don’t call me that either. Just call me One. And you’ll be Two,” I said.

“Like the numbers?”

“What? Yes, like the numbers.”

“I see some doors down there,” Javter said.

“I don’t think these stairs will hold,” I answered. “How much do you weigh?”

“About 415,” he said.

“You try them out.”

He walked out onto the platform in front of us. It was a four-story drop if that flooring gave out.

Javter turned around and shrugged.

“Jump up and down some,” I said.

He did so and there was some slight banging from his feet but no hints of metal fatigue at all. It seemed sturdy.

“Okay, come back here and let me try. If these can’t hold me I don’t know what we’ll do because this is the only way that’s clear,” I said.

I put out one foot slowly. Tap. Tap. I put a little weight on it while keeping most of my body in the doorway.

“It seems fine, Hank. Er, One. Are you One or me? I can be either,” Javter said.

I ignored him and inched out some more. It did seem pretty strong. I put half my weight on the platform and it didn’t make a sound. Dragging my other foot over, I was now completely on the metal floor.

I took a big sigh of relief.

Now it was a lot of stairs down to another platform, then up a different catwalk to some more stairs. The whole area was crisscrossed with piping and vents and cables. Basically anything that moved—water, air, electricity, sewage, laundry, trash—came through here.

The doors were on the ground level so we would have to go down.

I put a foot on the first stair and I passed through it like it was paper!

“TwOne!” Javter yelled, which confused me.

I felt him grab my shoulder to try and halt my fall, but that was foolish. I was many times his weight and he just came cartwheeling along with me.

Uncontrolled falls are about the epitome of panic. Arms and legs go flailing in some idiotic attempt to swim through the air. Maybe it’s some avian instinct we still possess, but it’s nevertheless not very helpful.

When we hit the ground I landed on my side.

But I also landed on Javter’s legs. I don’t know how he got under me but there he was. And by the mangled look of his legs, he was not in a good way.

He began yelping in pain and I put my hand over his mouth to muffle him. We had just ripped out a huge chunk of metal stairs, I don’t know why I was suddenly trying to be sneaky.

“Javter, er, Two, you need to be quiet,” I whispered.

And just like that, he stopped.

“Are my legs okay?” he asked. “I don’t want to look.”

I slowly got up. My ankle and wrist and shoulder hurt, but nothing was broken on me that I could tell. Javter was a mess.

“Uh. What position did you play in glocken?” I asked.

“I’m a Twist,” he said.

“You’re fine, then. You should still be able to throw tokens. But you won’t be running.”

“Oh, man! Oh, man!” Javter said. He had just looked at his legs.

“Shh. You got to be cool.”

What was I going to do? I just lost half my strike team and demolished our exit. Three sets of stairs were ruined. Even if we could somehow scamper up one, there’s no way we could bridge all those gaps.

“I’m thinking this attack is over, Javter,” I said.

“I thought we weren’t supposed to use our names,” he answered.

I took off my mask.

“Our only hope is we tell them who we are and try and get out of here. We haven’t done anything except some property damage at this point. We can leave the weapons here. If they ask…I don’t know, we’ll say we were trying to meet the competition ahead of the game to…invite them for drinks.”

“What about me? What about my legs?” Javter asked pitifully.

“You’re a crippled kid who wanted to get their autographs and I agreed to bring you,” I said.

I stowed all our weapons and gear in a duct in the far corner of the room. I figured it was a pretty good hiding spot because it was saturated with rust and dust and filth, so clearly no one came back here.

I only kept Gun and I could pass him off as just a normal sidearm—as long as he kept his mouth shut.

Using the rock bag and grenade bag, I tore up some strips to bind Javter's legs together. He could wrap his arms around my neck and hold on. He had good upper-body strength—and pretty amazing pain tolerance, I had to say.

I hoisted him up and looked to see which door was the most promising.

As I was standing there, the door in the middle of the room clicked and swung open.





CHAPTER 47




I waited for someone to come in but the doorway remained empty.

I thought if I was going to pretend to be a harmless spectator, I should make myself known.

“Hello?” I called out. “We seem to be lost.”

No answer.

With Javter still on my back, I walked to the open door, trying to simultaneously keep a casual air while preparing for a fight.

I peeked into the open doorway and beyond it was a lit hall with three passages. It was completely empty.

Hmm.

They could be hiding in wait around one of those corners. But if they wanted to attack they could have done it in that big open room.

I stood there a moment trying to puzzle this out when I noticed a security camera in the upper corner.

Stepping back into the main room I scanned all the corners and, sure enough, there were one, two, three, at least four cameras, looking all around.

So they had seen us come in, seen us fall, and maybe seen me plant a bunch of weapons and grenades. It was going to be difficult to play this off as a casual visit.

So far I was not impressed with Garm’s details of this building. I wish she would have mentioned they had cameras in every damn crevice. But maybe the Quadrad hadn’t penetrated this far.

I decided to hope that they couldn’t see the duct where I had stashed our gear or at least couldn’t recognize them at a distance via camera. It was dark over there and I didn’t exactly hold them up to the light.

I walked down the hall with a smile and jaunty step, carrying the crippled Javter on my back. I gave a hearty wave to the camera.

The door to the left clicked unlocked and swung open.

Standing where I was, I could immediately see there was no one behind it.

“What’s going on?” Javter asked.

“Someone is letting us walk inside,” I said.

“Who?”

“How should I know?”

We were similarly ushered through four more doors and up some, thankfully, firm stairs that didn’t collapse under me.

We only passed a few open rooms. Mostly maintenance and storage areas.

Finally, a door opened at the end of a hall and I could hear voices coming from behind it.

“I might have to drop you if things go bad,” I told Javter.

“I can still fight if they get close enough,” he said. “You should have let me keep some stones.”

I walked gingerly toward the room and the voices died down as we approached. This felt so bad. Every instinct I had was telling me to get out of there. But where would I go? Hide in the laundry? They had cameras all over this place.

I licked my lips, flexed my hands, rolled my head on my neck a bit, and tapped Gun at my side.

“You awake?” I asked.

“I don’t sleep. I don’t think,” he answered.

“I might need you to shoot people,” I said.

“Do they have noses?” he asked.

I was momentarily startled out of my mental planning by that question.

“Why does that matter?”

“I don’t know. I was just thinking about noses. Where did noses come from?” he asked.

I stopped and thought about it.

“I don’t know. Just shush, okay?”

I went back to creeping forward.

As I rounded on the room, I could see there were all kinds of computers and equipment inside. But no people were visible yet.

When I reached the entrance, I saw a large console, a uniformed Colmarian guard staring at me with obvious malice, and a large man in a pressurized mask.

I waited, unsure what to do.

“Hi, Hank,” my uncle said through his breathing mask.

“Uh, hi.”

“What are you doing here?” he asked, good-naturedly.

“We should call for backup, Frank,” the Colmarian guard said to my uncle.

“Frank?” I asked.

“Hold on, hold on, let him explain himself. He’s not going anywhere,” my uncle said.

“I, um, want to meet the team. You know, because we’re playing them. I wanted to kind of welcome them and maybe…” As I was speaking, hearing the words brought into stark relief how stupid they sounded. My mouth suddenly boycotted, refusing to say anything more.

“And who’s he?” my uncle asked, pointing to Javter.

“I’m Two,” he piped on command.

“We need to get some guns down here,” the smaller guard said.

“One moment, I know Hank.” My uncle folded his arms and got serious. “Come on now, do you want to tell us the real reason you’re here?”

This mission had been bad from the get-go. I was trapped, surrounded by enemies, and the only guy who might help me was my sleazy maybe-uncle who owed me a bunch of money.

“I’m here to try and somehow incapacitate one or more of the players,” I said simply.

“And why would you do that? What makes you think it would even be possible?” my uncle asked, clearly not impressed.

“I get a hundred million for each player taken out,” I said. “I’ll split it with you.”

My uncle’s face was obscured by his breathing apparatus. I had no idea what his expression was.

“Enough of this,” the Colmarian said. “I’m calling for help!”

My uncle backed away from the console.

“Yeah, sorry, Hank, but you clearly don’t know what’s going on here,” my uncle said.

I was about to take out Gun when my uncle grabbed the other security guard by the back of the head and smashed him face-first into the console. The computer practically ripped in half from the blow, and it was a sturdy-looking piece of hardware.

“Wow, a hundred million? No fooling?” my uncle asked.

“Yeah. For starting players. Fifty for bench or defenders,” I said.

The Colmarian security guard had fallen to the floor and I didn’t know if he was unconscious or dead, but he was not entering any beauty pageants after getting his face pushed through a dozen circuit boards.

“So what is your plan on taking them out?” my uncle asked.

“Well,” I started. “We have some grenades stored back in that room. Hey, how long have you been watching us?”

“Since you came in. That was funny what you did on the stairs. What do you have besides grenades?”

“I have a couple shotguns. I, uh, have Gun,” I said, and I turned my hip so he could see.

“You brought the Rettosian pistol? Do you trust it?” my uncle asked.

“Sure. I guess. It seems like a good guy. For a gun.”

“Okay, but how do you expect to take out a player?” my uncle asked, confused.

“Surprise? They wouldn’t expect us, right?”

“You know there’s like twenty-five other Ontakian guards in here?” he asked.

“Oh. Really? No, I didn’t know that. Can I talk to them?” I asked.

“Talk to them? You want to talk to them? Hey, Two, can you wait in the hallway?” my uncle asked.

“Sure. If you can put me down there,” Javter said.

I carried him into the hall and gently laid him down.

“Things are going pretty good, huh, Hank?” Javter asked happily.

“Yeah,” I said, blinking at his ignorance.

I rejoined my uncle and closed the door so we could talk in private.

“Is your real name Frank?” I asked him.

“No, I told you my real name. I wanted to use a Colmarian one so people didn’t know I was a former slave,” he said.

“It sounds like mine.”

“That’s what I based it on. What the hell do I know about Colmarian names?”

“So is it cool if I talk to some of the other Ontakians? I really want to know about my home world,” I said.

“You’re just going to walk up to them and say you’re Hank the Colmarian Ontakian mutant from a rival team infiltrating the place they are protecting and ask them about Ontak?” Frank asked.

“Well…you’re working here. Can’t you introduce us?”

“They don’t know who I am. Or care. I’m just another Ontakian to them,” he answered.

“Where did so many Ontakians come from?” I asked.

“Floloria.”

“The Rettosians? I thought you hated them,” I said.

“A fella’s got to work,” he said simply.

“So can we get past the guards?”

“Not if you talk to them. But otherwise, yes. Your friend with the broken legs can’t come, though.”

“We can’t just leave him here,” I said.

Frank sighed.

“I guess we can get a ladder and a pallet with wheels. I can unlock the doors from here to the exit. If he gets caught they might find out what he knows, though.”

“I honestly don’t think he knows anything,” I said.

“But the problem isn’t the Ontakians, it’s the players. Who did you want to go after?” Frank asked.

“I was hoping to go for their 8-lane so I wouldn’t have to play against him.”

“You’re crazy! That guy could rip both of us apart even if you shoved all those grenades up his urethra. Our best bet is to go for their 2-lane. Guy by the name of Bildosa. He’s a big scorer but he also sleeps a lot. Like a real lot,” Frank said.

“I don’t play a 2-lane,” I pouted. “I was hoping to go for some of the higher lanes. I know they’re good glocken players, but we got two Ontakians with weapons. Don’t you think we can handle them?”

“They aren’t just good glocken players. You know everyone on the Reskin Sleepers team is a mutant, right?” Frank asked.





CHAPTER 48




“How do you know they’re mutants?” I asked.

“It’s obvious,” Frank answered.

I waited for him to continue but he just stood there.

“Okay, how is it obvious? It wasn’t obvious to me.”

“I’ve been all over this galaxy and seen a fair number of odd things. But what these guys can do isn’t just weird, it’s inexplicable. It has to be mutations. They try and keep it hidden, but I noticed. I’ve been cataloging their abilities so I can sell it to competitors. How do you think they keep winning all these games?” Frank asked.

“Because they’re mutants?” I replied.

“Sure. A whole team of mutants. And not even lame mutations, but really good ones,” Frank said.

I thought about how strong a team of mutants would be. Like one of me on every lane.

“I think Irune has some tricks he’s pulling. You know anything about that?” I asked.

“Irune doesn’t do anything. He doesn’t even coach them,” Frank said dismissively.

“What? Then what’s he doing at every game on the sidelines?” I asked.

“You’ve seen him. He just sits there. He hasn’t said one word to the team or made them run through one practice. Other people do that.”

“Irune talked to me on Floloria. He even called me by name,” I said.

“Really?” Frank seemed surprised. “What did he say to you?”

“Just that. Called me by name.”

“I think Irune is just a gimmick to hide the mutations,” Frank said.

“But why are they hiding them? I’m a mutant and it’s not a secret,” I said.

“Because they don’t want people to know the whole team are mutants.”

“Why? I mean, it’s pretty incredible they have that many mutants together, it must have taken them a long time to find, but it’s not illegal or against the rules,” I said.

“You think they found these players? This many mutants who are perfectly suited to glocken? It would take a thousand talent scouts a thousand years. No, they’re hiding the mutations because they don’t want anyone to know they’re making them.”

“Making them? But that technology is lost,” I exclaimed.

“Says who? You? You an expert on advanced bio-manipulation? The civil war might have wiped out a lot, but there’s got to be some labs somewhere that weren’t destroyed. Some scientists must have survived,” Frank said.

I thought about this. Wow, new mutants. I figured I was a dying breed, but there might be more of us. Then again, I wasn’t a Colmarian mutant I was an Ontakian mutant.

“Still, it’s not against the law. Yeah, some people might be freaked out that they’re making mutants, but so what?” I asked.

“You know how mutations worked, right? It was all random. What was it, a 1% success rate? Less? I don’t know. And a bunch of mutations weren’t good, they were bad. Really bad. So how many people did they have to mutate to get one Super Class glocken team? That’s what they’re hiding. All the failures. All the people with horrific mutations.”

“The Colmarian Confederation mutated its population to protect it from being invaded by other empires. I can’t imagine anyone would do it just for glocken,” I said.

“Well, they have. I mean you’ve played them. You’ve seen them,” Frank said.

“We had videos of their practices. They’re…really good.”

“Exactly. And if you think people wouldn’t do this just for glocken, you don’t understand how much money is involved—wait, they’re paying you a hundred million to take out one player. So let’s get going.”

“We have to help Javter, the guy in the other room. And what mutation does this Bildosa have?”

“I don’t know,” Frank said. “I’ll open the doors back to the surface. Go down the hall and grab a maintenance dolly. Your friend can pull himself along sitting on it. Then get your weapons. We’ll need them.”

“How will he get up the broken stairs if he’s on a cart?” I asked.

“There are other ways out. I assume you worked a deal with the outside security otherwise you couldn’t get in. Just tell them he’s coming,” Frank said.



Javter wasn’t happy to be left out of the fight, but I think he understood his ability to chew on someone’s foot wasn’t that impressive.

I teled Shor-Nuss and said Javter was coming out and that he hadn’t been seen. He wanted to know if the plan was still on and I said it was.

Frank was armed with…I don’t know. He had on two thick metal gauntlets and a big backpack.

“What’s that?” I asked with professional curiosity.

“Twin flame throwers. I never really got good with guns—which is a shame because they’re very inexpensive. This mask also makes it hard to aim well.”

“Yeah, that’s why I use shotguns. Never thought of flamethrowers. I had your plasma gun you sent me for a while, but it exploded.”

“You fired it? Did it work?” Frank asked.

“A few times. It shot clean through metal buildings,” I said.

“Yeah, those smart Ontakians were really smart. Our family doesn’t come from that line,” he said.

Every time Frank talked I had more questions, but this was a bad time to go over our genealogy.

“Why two flamethrowers instead of one?”

“They’re different types. The left one is a short-range cone that I can use up close and not kill myself. The right one is a liquid stream that ignites on contact and can burn for up to an hour. You get covered by that, it’s messy.”



We walked through the halls and passed other guards.

Ontakians.

They were big, rugged guys, and I couldn’t help staring. But we walked past them without stopping. Frank said they wouldn’t check our credentials because we had security badges and Frank, at least, was recognized. I probably looked like a new Ontakian recruit.

After a while of them ignoring us, I had to comment.

“For fabulous Ontakian guards, these guys don’t seem that competent,” I said.

“They’re just punching a timecard. Rettosians hire Ontakians. I think it makes them feel like the boss again and they didn’t actually lose the war. In return, the Ontakians don’t work very hard.”

“How did the rebellion start, anyway?” I asked, as we walked through the halls.

“Supposedly there was an Ontakian leader who gathered everyone,” Frank said.

“Did he die?” I asked.

“No one knows. Probably.”

“What was his name?” I asked.

“Thad Elon.”

I stopped.

“That’s not possible,” I said.

“What?” he asked.

“Every damn species in the galaxy has some Thad Elon myth,” I said.

“I don’t think he exists. Or if he did, he was a lot of different people and they just gave him one name,” Frank said.

“But haven’t you heard of Thad Elon’s Day, the Colmarian holiday?” I asked.

“Who cares about Colmarians? Their empire doesn’t even exist anymore.”

“A bunch of other species have that same name though.”

“So? I’m sure there are Hanks in other languages as well. You get enough races together the words will overlap.”

“Yeah, but if there are Hanks they aren’t all Factotum 0003. Every Thad Elon from every race is similar. Like some big hero.”

“That sure is interesting,” Frank said, completely uninterested. “But Bildosa is in that room. He’s a punchy little guy for his size, and he’s fast. So get those grenades and shotguns ready.”

“I don’t want to kill him,” I said.

Frank looked at me.

“Did you think we were going to tickle him? Ask him politely to sit out the next game?”

“No, but can’t we just rough him up so he can’t play?”

“We got a hundred million on the line. Our best bet is to go in there, raise hell, and get out before anyone can stop us. You can do what you want, but I’m throwing down a room full of fire.”

He didn’t wait for me to answer and hurried to the door.





CHAPTER 49




Frank clicked the panel to unlock Bildosa’s door. As soon as it opened, I saw a four-foot-tall Colmarian wearing full glocken protective gear waiting for us.

He was thin and unimposing.

If Frank was surprised seeing Bildosa ready and waiting, he recovered quickly and threw a one-two combination with a speed I could only envy.

Frank’s left cross was ducked easily, and his right uppercut was deflected.

Bildosa did a cartwheel into the hallway and was now standing in front of me.

I hadn’t been ready and was honestly having difficulty following things. Both Frank and Bildosa were a lot faster than me.

I took out a shotgun, aimed low, knowing he had on body armor, and fired.

Bildosa did the oddest split I ever saw. Keeping his left foot on the ground, he leaned far to the left and kicked his right leg straight up. His arms were outstretched and touched the wall. He immediately recovered into a standing position. How he did that so fast was beyond me, but I didn’t hit him at all.

Frank whipped out his left hand and the flamethrower shot out a blast of fire that filled the whole hallway. I could feel the heat on my face, but he was right, the flames didn’t go very far. It was more of a brief puff.

When the fire faded, we saw Bildosa was thirty feet away from us. He had somehow jumped backwards without a running start and without hitting the low ceiling.

I didn’t know what mutant level this guy was, but he was up there.

“Get going!” Frank said.

I fired two more shots with my shotgun and Bildosa pressed himself against each wall like he was attached by pneumatic cables. He moved far faster than I could aim.

I took out my other shotgun and rapid fired, trying to fill the hallway with buckshot, figuring he couldn’t dodge it all. But he jumped to my left, flipped up the wall, took two steps on the ceiling, pushed off to the other wall, then landed gracefully in the center of the corridor.

I had three more shots in my bag but I would need to reload. I also had grenades and Gun—I hadn’t bothered bringing the rocks.

I underhand threw a concussion grenade and, to my amazement, Bildosa jumped forward, hopped on the grenade in mid-air, and arrived a few feet in front of us before the grenade exploded harmlessly out of range.

My mouth was still hanging open when Bildosa suddenly did a handstand, kicked Frank in the face, knocking him on his back, then spun around like a windmill and tripped me.

This was their 2-lane! And to think I had wanted to go after their 8-lane.

I started to get up only to see Bildosa straddling Frank and punching him with both fists. Frank’s head was thrashing around so much I thought it might fly off. How could a tiny guy be so strong?

I reached out to grab him and he punched me in the nose. A blinding pain shot through me and I thought he must have shattered a bone. Both of my hands immediately went to my face to protect myself.

Bildosa went back to pummeling Frank, who was trying unsuccessfully to cover up.

“Help!” He muttered.

I took out a Pyrodite grenade, primed it, and dropped it on the ground. I curled into a ball but as I was doing so, I got to see Bildosa really move.

He lunged backwards with arms and legs outstretched and quite literally flew thirty feet and landed.

The grenade went off and I was engulfed in flames. Odd as it was, this was a respite from Bildosa’s little fists of doom.

While I was ignited, I had a moment to think about what I had just seen. When Bildosa escaped, he did not travel in an arc. He shot back like a laser beam, completely parallel with the floor.

The Pyrodite grenades didn’t create much lasting flame and died down almost as quickly as they appeared, leaving just a few patches burning by our feet.

“Maybe we should go,” I said to Frank, as he stood up.

But he held out his right hand and launched a stream of burning liquid. Bildosa dodged it easily. Frank fired three more jets and each time they were casually sidestepped.

The hall was now burning brightly about fifty feet away and it was getting harder to breathe and see because of the smoke.

“Throw another past him to force him closer,” Frank said.

“Do we want him closer?” I asked.

But I threw another Pyrodite like he said.

It erupted behind Bildosa and even surrounded him for a brief moment, but seemed to cause no irritation at all.

He then leapt forward as fast as I had seen him retreat, kicked Frank…somewhere, hit me in the knee, then the back of the neck, then my side. I’m not even sure I got to blink before all that happened.

I was on the ground and I didn’t even remember falling. Hell, I didn’t remember how I got in this building. I’d probably forget my own name in a minute.

Frank roared and charged forward.

He was a good brawler. Really good considering each of those punches packed about as much force as a rocket-assisted sledgehammer.

But Bildosa kept blocking them. Not directly stopping the blows, but more deflecting and avoiding. And for every miss, Frank took a murderous counter-shot.

Frank was getting beaten silly by this diminutive man who was probably the same mass as Frank’s leg and the same mass as my big toe. It didn’t make any sense.

“Shoot him!” Frank said.

I was out of shotgun shells, but I took out Gun and aimed.

“Hey, Gun, can you shoot that guy?” I yelled.

No response.

“Gun!”

“Don’t use that thing,” Frank said.

“Where’d he come from?” Gun asked.

“Shoot,” I yelled again.

“To kill?” Gun asked.

I thought a second and said:

“No.”

“Yes!” Frank replied.

“No,” I said clearly.

“Okay,” Gun said. “Bang!”

Frank grabbed his right thigh and dropped to the ground, crying in pain. I also fell to my knees. I felt tired. Like I wasn’t full of adrenaline in a flame-filled hallway but was in bed two minutes before going to sleep.

I shook my head trying to get out of it.

“Dammit!” Frank said. “I told you not to use it. That’s a Rettosian gun.”

“Why did you shoot him?” I asked Gun.

“You told me to,” Gun replied calmly.

I holstered the weapon and went to help Frank.

As I approached, Bildosa kicked me in my face again and punched me in my gut, doubling me over. He then kneed me in my head with enough force I landed on my back.

Like he had done to Frank, Bildosa stood on my chest and began peppering my face with punches. I defended myself as best I could, but I still felt the blows.

Again, this didn’t make sense.

I know this guy was a mutant, but mutations weren’t magic. I was really strong because I was thousands of pounds. Frank was faster than me because he wasn’t thousands of pounds. There was no way this guy could be faster and stronger than both of us. If he was punching me with this much force, he should be pushing himself up against the ceiling with each blow because he was so light. That’s just physics.

But I felt it. And Frank felt it. It certainly wasn’t an illusion.

The pain was incredible as this weedy little 2-lane beat the snot out of me.

I had been punched by a Therezian; fought Dredel Led combat robots; fired an autocannon at point-blank range; been hit with bombs and missiles and countless bullets. But all of them were less painful than this.

I was almost paralyzed.

Frank was faring no better as he groaned and screamed next to me.

In between blows, I reached down and got hold of Gun.

“How many people are in this hall?” I yelled.

“Two,” Gun answered pleasantly.

Damn. There goes that idea.

“Well then why did you shoot him and not the other guy?” I asked.

“Did you want me to shoot you?” Gun asked.

“What? How many people are here besides me?” I asked.

“One.”

“You don’t see a little person about four feet tall?”

“No.”

“Frank! He’s in our heads! It’s not real,” I said.

“The hell you talking about? You listening to that gun that shot me?” he asked.

I looked at my uncle. He was crouched against the wall trying to cover himself as Bildosa kicked him.

“Your mask. It isn’t broken. You’ve been punched in the face like fifty times. Am I bleeding?” I yelled.

With great difficulty he turned to me.

“No,” he said, astonished.

I still felt the pain, but it was dimming. Part of my brain knew it was fake but something was still going on.

Frank reached over and took one of my Pyrodite grenades from my hip bag.

He dragged himself up even as Bildosa kept hammering and kicking at him. But I could see it was affecting him less as well.

He primed the grenade and hurled it into Bildosa’s room. We had never gone into that room since Bildosa had come out to meet us.

There was a blast and a wave of fire shot from the doorway. Bildosa suddenly disappeared.

A few moments afterwards, another Bildosa ran into the hallway. The big difference between the two Bildosas was this one was on fire and waving his arms around, shrieking. But he quickly tripped and rolled along the floor.

I held out Gun.

“Shoot that little guy,” I said. “To kill.”

I promptly fainted.





CHAPTER 50




I woke up to see the ceiling moving past me.

Slowly.

I lifted my head and saw my uncle dragging me by one foot, though he was having a tough time.

“How long was I out?” I asked.

He threw down my leg with a groan.

“Good, you’re awake. About five or ten minutes I’d guess. I almost broke my back. What do you weigh, like 4,000 pounds?” he asked.

“No,” I said, irritated, but I didn’t clarify further.

I still had niggling worries that Frank wasn’t really my uncle. But here he was risking his life to save me when he could have just taken off.

“I get half of the money, right?” Frank asked.

Oh, yeah. He needed me for the contract.

“Yeah. What did Gun do to Bildosa?” I asked as I stood up.

“The whole hallway was just…misted with blood. There was hardly anything left. I told you that thing was dangerous. I don’t know why it knocked you out.”

“Delovoa said it takes the electricity of the user. Sorry for shooting you. How’s your leg?”

“You didn’t shoot me, that gun did. I’ll live. Doesn’t seem to be a bolt inside so I guess I got lucky. Hurts like hell, though.”

“Yeah, it doesn’t shoot bullets, it shoots like blobs of space that warp gravity,” I said.

“Well, it can turn a 2-lane glocken player into ten buckets of food coloring and drill holes in Ontakian legs. We need to get the hell out of here. Are you okay to walk?”

“Yeah, I feel like I just took a nap,” I said.

“The facility will be on lockdown so most guards will be covering the players. I think we can go through the cafeteria and then to the freight loading zone. Those should all be low priority. But we’re going to run into the outside security. You said you made a deal with them?”

“Shor-Nuss. He let us in, but I don’t know if he told all his men,” I said.

“Then we’ll have to fight our way out. I’m not too worried though, those guys are just Colmarian losers. You can whip them with one hand,” Frank said.

“What about you?”

“I got shot in the leg. I’m concentrating on not bleeding to death and getting us out of here. I figure I’m doing more than my fair share,” he said.

Frank had tried to make a tourniquet, but we didn’t have any material strong enough to stanch an Ontakian’s thigh so he was making do by just pressing one of my extra shirts to his skin.

Seeing him bleed and limp like that made me really appreciate how much of a mutant I was compared to him. That same shot wouldn’t have significantly hurt me. I certainly wouldn’t look like I was trailing a slaughterhouse.

“If anyone comes into this hall they won’t have trouble tracking us,” I said, admiring the streaks of blood on the floor.

“The more you keep talking, the more likely they’ll come,” Frank replied icily.

We went across the empty cafeteria and Frank grabbed a huge wad of napkins which he shoved inside his pants over his wound.

After that we went through a service door that Frank said led to the loading facility for the cafeteria. He motioned to be alert.

Two figures in thick steel body armor came into view at the end of the hall. They were clearly waiting for us. Their armor made them almost look like robots, but you could see their faces and skin in some places.

“That’s civil war armor and rocket pods,” Frank said from behind me. Not sure how he got back there so fast.

“Hi,” I started. “I have an agreement with your boss, Shor-Nuss. You see it’s kind of—”

The two men raised their rifles and fired.

They were almost lazy rockets. I could see them pop out and make little smoke trails as they streamed at me. One, two, five, twenty rockets each.

Some flew past, some hit the walls, ceiling, floor, my chest, legs.

They exploded in little booms that hurt like hell.

“Guys! Seriously,” I said, covering my face.

“Shoot them, dumbass. I can’t take a stream of micro missiles exploding all around me,” Frank yelled.

“What am I going to do, shotgun them? They’re wearing dump trucks,” I said, annoyed.

“Grenade them, stupid.”

Oh, yeah.

I took out and rolled a Pyrodite grenade. They were about fifty feet away and the grenade exploded in front of them.

When the fire died down, I saw they were sealing their suits up. Closing what little openings they had with bulky metal hatches. They only had one camera on top of their helmets. It was probably hard to see. Not that two guys trapped in a long hallway were very difficult to shoot when you had missile launchers.

I didn’t think Gun could hurt them. If he could, he would probably need so much of my electricity, it would kill me.

I rummaged around for my door-smasher bomb, found it, and put it to the first setting I could. I turned around and held it out.

“Here, throw this at them,” I said to Frank.

“You throw it,” he said, crouching lower.

“I can’t throw well. It’s a bomb,” I whispered.

Frank instantly snatched it and chucked it past me.

I turned around in time to get hit by several missiles. But I did see the bomb had stuck right on the front of one of the suits.

“Wow. Good throw,” I said.

“How long is the timer?” Frank asked.

“I don’t know. Either a minute or ten minutes,” I said.

“Ten minutes? You’re as bad at this as you are at glocken! We need to get out of here,” he said.

We looked behind us to escape and at the end of the hall was none other than Irune, the head coach of the Reskin Sleepers.

He had on his suit and sunglasses and looked like he was ready to coach a game. Or at least sit on the sidelines.

“Shoot him,” Frank said.

“Why?”

“He’s in our way.”

I didn’t care about shooting him because he was or wasn’t the coach, but I felt certain he was doing something with the Rettosians. Maybe it was guilt-by-guess, but for whatever reason I didn’t have much reluctance about shooting a random, well-dressed civilian.

I had only brought the two shotguns and ammo to reload one, figuring if I was in a firefight then I was already screwed. I only had three shots left. I fired once.

I saw his coat get ruffled but not much else.

I fired two more shots and Irune was again unhurt. He just stood there, showing as much interest in our activities as he showed in a typical glocken game.

“Is Bildosa in our heads again?” I asked.

“Bildosa is a grease spot,” Frank said.

The missiles had stopped and I heard the two guards talking. They didn’t want to risk hitting Irune, which told me he really was there and not a hallucination.

“Use your death device,” I said ominously.

“My what?”

“The thing you had on Mapposh 48,” I muttered.

“I sold that. Use your gun.”

Irune began walking forward, and for some reason he seemed more threatening than the two battle bots, armed to the eyeballs, behind us.

I took out Gun and held it past Frank so we wouldn’t have that mishap again.

“Gun, do you see that guy wearing sunglasses?” I asked.

“Hello. What are sunglasses?” he asked.

“That guy walking,” I amended.

“He’s a sunglasses?”

“Can you see him?” I shouted.

“Yes.”

“Shoot him!” I yelled.

“It won’t injure him,” Gun stated.

“Just do it!”

“Bang!” Gun said.

Irune jerked far more than when I had hit him with my shotgun. I felt sleepy as usual after firing Gun. But Irune kept walking.

“Did you shoot him?” I asked.

“Yes,” Gun said.

“What happened?”

“I told you it wouldn’t hurt him,” Gun answered.

“Frank, light him up.”

Frank held out his arms and let loose with both flamethrowers. The whole hallway was engulfed in fire.

The liquid stuck to the walls and burned furiously. It also stuck to Irune, who was cloaked in flames. But he seemed completely unconcerned by them as he continued his stroll toward us.

BOOM!

We turned around to see the hallway had been blown open, the ceiling blasted clear, and our armored assaulters were now piles of twisted metal. My bomb had thankfully been set for one minute instead of ten.

“Let’s go that way,” Frank said hastily.

Even with a shot-up leg, he moved a lot quicker than me. I had trouble keeping up as we hurried away from the ominous glocken coach.





CHAPTER 51




We had to get past two more guards to get out, but it wasn’t very difficult.

I broke the arm of one and Frank broke the everything of the other.

I teled for my limo to meet us a few blocks away.

“Gun, why didn’t you ask me if I wanted you to shoot to kill?” That had been bothering me. Maybe he shot Irune with just a dainty shot—though the guy had shrugged off two flamethrowers.

Gun didn’t answer.

“Don’t waste your breath. Who knows what its programming is?” Frank said.

Once inside the limo I took out Gun and asked again while holding him.

“Because I knew it wouldn’t work,” he answered.

“How did you know?” I asked.

“Because I saw it.”

“But you didn’t see until after you shot. I’m asking how you knew it wouldn’t work before you shot him.”

“What do you mean ‘before’?”

“Hank, my leg is throbbing and I don’t want to listen to this nonsense,” Frank said.

“Can you only hear me when I hold you in my hand?” I asked Gun.

“I don’t know,” he said.

I holstered Gun.

“Can you hear me? Gun? Gun?”

He was silent.

“That’s weird,” I said.

“Makes sense. Why would you design a gun that is listening and arguing with you when you don’t need it?” Frank stated.

“What do you think was up with Irune? Is he a mutant, too? We threw a lot at him,” I asked.

“I’m wondering if he isn’t a Dredel Led. You got a Dredel Led general manager,” Frank said.

“Yeah, but you mentioned Irune never coaches.”

“Not that I saw, but I wasn’t with the team every minute. It would explain how he resisted those attacks though. He could be a mutant, but if he could ignore flamethrowers, shotguns, and Rettosian pistols, he should be playing glocken and not coaching.”



I wanted to tell Ulteem and Shor-Nuss that the hit had been successful, but Frank wanted to get our money first.

We went back to training camp and I teled to make sure Cliston would be there. I didn’t give any more information because I knew from experience teles weren’t secure.

Frank rattled off a list of drugs for the doctors to retrieve for him so he could begin patching himself up. Most were pretty obscure and not your typical salves and antibiotics. And of course, that fluorine gas.

He was currently drinking more alcohol than anyone I had ever seen.

“Hey, have you ever heard of a drug that turns Ontakians into like super-athletic crazy people?” I asked.

“No,” he said. “You really should wear a mask. One reason you’ve got no stamina is because you’re not getting the right air.”

“I’m not breathing fluorine, man. I’m a mutant, what if my lungs are different than yours? You only get to make that mistake once,” I said.

Cliston, Garm, and Magda all came in the sick room, making it rather cramped.

“Who’s that?” Magda pointed, scowling.

“My uncle. He helped me take out Bildosa,” I said.

“Their 2-lane is down?” she asked.

“Dead, yeah,” I answered.

“I get half of the hundred million,” Frank said, hopping down off the gurney. “Pay up.”

“We got bad news, Hank,” Garm said.

Frank patted my chest hard.

“Here it comes,” he said suspiciously.

“Kitt has been kidnapped,” Garm finished.

“We still get paid, right?” Frank asked.

“I have to wire our benefactor for the funds, but if Bildosa has indeed been removed, then yes,” Cliston answered.

“Get wiring, then,” Frank replied, crossing his arms.

“Do you know who took Kitt? When? How?” I asked.

“No, we don’t know how she was taken. We don’t have any leads. She just vanished,” Garm said.

“Did you check the local sex shops?” I asked, but then I felt lousy. Kitt wasn’t a bad person by any stretch and I hoped she was just off signing autographs instead of kidnapped by the Rettosians. “I’m going to have to tell Ulteem about this. The odds will even out if we’re down a key player. This whole thing might be for nothing.”

“Kitt or no Kitt we still took out one of their starters,” Frank said defiantly.

“If Ulteem and Shor-Nuss already started placing bets, billions could be flushed down the toilet and they might hold us accountable,” I said to Frank.

He shrugged.

“Belvaille is getting dull anyway. I don’t mind leaving,” he replied.

“Are we going to forfeit?” I asked Cliston.

“We can’t. Not with just one player down,” Magda said.

“How about our reserve players, Cliston?” I asked. “Can we tap one of those?”

“I don’t have any for the 4-lane. Javter might have worked if you didn’t break both of his legs. We only have a replacement 2-lane and 7-lane,” Cliston said.

“That’s me and Garm,” I said after a moment.

“Yes, I considered you two the weakest links what with your numerous other duties and enemies,” Cliston stated.

I couldn’t believe that!

“But if you replaced me, you wouldn’t get your cut as a sports agent. And you’d have to go back to being my butler fulltime,” I shouted.

“I’m aware of that. But it’s my duty as general manager to do what is best for the team, even if it means leaving the team,” he replied.

“You’re a nut, Cliston,” I said. “But if we go out there and play the Sleepers with us down a 4-lane and them down a 2-lane, they’re going to beat us even worse than before.”

“Bildosa was a better scorer than Kitt was. But Kitt was more versatile,” Magda said. “What’s wrong with your leg?” Magda asked Frank.

“He shot me,” he replied, pointing at me.

“Sounds about right. How much do you weigh?” Magda asked.

“I don’t know. Maybe 600 or 700.”

“Too big for a 4-lane. But Candar could drop to 4 and you go 5. You ever play glocken?” she asked.

“Bush leagues. Outer rim stuff. Max Class. I was an 8-lane. But that was about 200 years ago and we cheated a lot,” Frank said.

“Will you be healed up to play in the Championship and able to play without that mask?” Magda asked.

“I can do whatever you want if you pay me,” he said.





CHAPTER 52




Ulteem was furious.

He said I was sloppy and had drawn too much attention with the attack on the Reskin Sleepers, which made it hard to fix the game because everyone had heard about what happened. He said the Central Authority was already breathing heavy on him, suspecting he had a hand in it. And being the Lord that he was, he had been told that Maris-To was outraged at the brazen strike on a visiting team.

Ulteem didn’t even seem to appreciate that we had taken out the 2-lane, Bildosa.

He was in such a foul mood I thought it best not to tell him that Kitt was missing. I had done what I said I would do and I wasn’t going to apologize for it.

No one said fixing bets was easy.



I got a tele from Delovoa, of all people. I had just about written him off for dead.

He said he was ready to talk about the Portal issue.

The Portals! Right. I had been so busy doing other things I had forgotten the Murdaere of the Central Authority had ordered me to somehow fix broken celestial artifacts.

If I could help on the Portals, that would be a good alibi for the attack on the Reskin Sleepers.

I called up Inspector MTB and asked him to meet me at Delovoa’s so we could discuss things.

I rang the doorbell at Delovoa’s and when it was opened, I was more horrified than usual.

It was Delovoa. I think.

Delovoa was normally a decrepit mutant who rode around in a wheelchair towing his guts behind in a wagon.

The creature that greeted me was a seven-foot-tall patchwork Colmarian with a bulbous skull that looked like a big bubble with two smaller bubbles off-center. He had three eyes that went straight across his face, but nonetheless stared and blinked independently. He had a massive pug nose that was oozing snot. And beneath it all was a smiling mouth full of metal teeth.

All of this was stitched together with surgical clamps and bolts and I could see where the skin types varied in texture and color. It was like a bunch of aliens got put into a blender and the ugliest pieces were picked out and stitched together.

“That’s what you were off doing?” I asked, immediately understanding.

“Shh,” Delovoa hissed. “Come inside if you want to talk,” he said. His voice was deeper, and he sounded like he had a speech impediment or learning disability. Probably because he had a brand new skull and tongue and was getting used to them.

I walked past him and had to comment:

“Man, you stink!” I said. He smelled like rotting food.

“I’m not sure which part of me is decaying, but I’ll replace it when I figure it out,” he said casually. “So what do you think?”

He put his arms out and twirled around, hitting me in the face.

Delovoa was now a bulky, masculine man. His organs were not on display, thankfully. He was wearing a bathrobe that was too small and part of it was crusted to him from whatever fluids his new body was leaking.

“Why do you keep doing this to yourself? What is left that’s original?” I asked.

“I do it because, unlike you, I age at a normal rate. And, unlike you, I didn’t have a level-ten mutant rebuild my body. I had to do it myself. My brains are all original, that’s about it. Check this out,” he said.

He gingerly removed his robe, with it cracking and tearing and slurping at various points. Underneath, his flesh was patched together even more than his face, with large metal sections and dozens of different skin types.

Delovoa was indeed brawny. I’m not sure his skeletal structure, but he had a strange set of muscles. He didn’t look like anything I had ever seen.

I was about to mention what looked like his four pectoral muscles when he grinned and pulled down his underwear.

“Look,” he said proudly.

“That’s just stupid,” I said. “What are you even going to use that on? You’ll go into a coma if you get aroused.”

“Don’t be jealous,” he said.

“Trust me, Delovoa. I am not jealous.” I was almost going to ask where he got the parts for this new body, but I didn’t want to know. I wasn’t above getting nightmares.

“So do you know anything about these Portals?” I asked.

“They aren’t working,” he said, putting his clothes back on.

“I know that. Do you know why?”

“No. None of my diagnostics are working either. It might have been a total catastrophic failure.”

“Don’t you have a bunch of murder bots there? Can’t they report on anything?” I asked.

“No. I only have robots in a small number of Portals—don’t tell anyone that. It’s impossible to fill them all, there’s too many Portals and their interiors are quite large. The ones that aren’t operational didn’t have any robots,” he said.

“Do you think that’s why people went to those?” I asked.

“I don’t know that anyone went to them. Like I said, they might have simply stopped working. You know at least as much as I do,” he said.

“Finally you admit it. Did you call me here so I could smell you?” I asked.

“Actually, would you? I’m a bit used to my own odor, but if you could sniff around it would help me see what’s going bad.”

“No.”

“Come on, Hank. This could be very serious if my body is actually putrefying,” he said.

“Okay. But…not until MTB leaves. And you can’t talk about it to anyone,” I said.

“It’s not something one brings up in proper society. By the way, how is that gun working?”

“It’s weird. Sometimes it’s great and sometimes it’s not. If I can convince it to do what I want, it’s amazing. But I can’t always strike up a philosophical debate during a fight. And you’re right, it does seem to use my own juice. I get sleepy when I fire it, which is also a bad thing when someone is about to kill me.”

“How have the doctors at training camp been? I gave them some instructions on how to help you before I went off to build my new physique.”

“They’re horrible. I need you back. Your drugs are better and you can give the raw formula to Cliston so he can make it into fancy meals. I’m tired of eating it out of the can.”

“It’s good to feel wanted,” he sighed.



Delovoa challenged me to arm wrestle but I was afraid I would rip him in half. He looked fragile despite his size. He was bleeding all over, but he didn’t seem very concerned about it.

It turns out he gave himself that big nose and mouth because he had really missed eating and tasting in his old body. So now he could taste like ten times as well as a normal Colmarian and if you gave him a dirty pair of underwear, he could track you across Belvaille.

MTB came by a little later.

He took one look at Delovoa and didn’t even raise an eyebrow. MTB had been a policeman for a long time and was even more jaded than I was.

“I thought this might help,” he said, slapping a report on a nearby table.

I flipped through it.

“This is…space stuff, right?” I asked.

“Not really—” MTB started.

“He always does that: pretends he knows what he’s talking about. I told him it’s annoying,” Delovoa said.

“These are the flight data logs that our nearby C.A. military ships recorded,” MTB said.

“Hey, that’s space stuff,” I argued.

“It shows one ship coming to a stop very close to one of the malfunctioning Portals about a month ago,” he continued.

“The C.A. tracks and records all flights?” I asked, concerned.

“No. There’s way too much traffic for that and we only store it for a short while. It’s only if one of the tracking ships is in range. Only a small number have this equipment,” he said.

“How many?” I asked.

“Don’t worry about it. The point is, some ship went near the Portal for over five hours,” he said.

“Near enough to dock?” I asked.

“You can’t dock with a Portal. You would have to get out of your ship. It’s not especially easy to get inside. Probably 99% of the population don’t even think of the Portals as structures,” Delovoa said.

“The ship was very close. If we had noticed it, we would have told them to move,” MTB said.

“How did you not notice if you recorded it?” I asked.

“They record everything in a radius. That’s a lot of ships moving around. They don’t have enough people to tell everyone exactly where to go and when. I just got lucky I pulled this tape before it was erased,” MTB said.

“So they could have also visited the other Portals but you don’t have that data?” I asked.

“Yeah.”

“Fine. So whose ship is it? Go bust their heads until they tell you what they did to the Portals,” I said.

“It’s not like the old days. It’s hard to see what ship is registered to who. People fake it all the time. All I know for sure is that the ship has a home port of Floloria,” MTB said.

“A Rettosian ship!” I said.

“I suppose so,” he replied.

“Those guys are doing everything. They’re stealing our glocken players, too,” I said.

“Why?” Delovoa asked.

“So they can make mutants. I think,” I said.

“Make mutants? Why would they need to steal your glocken players? To run around their mutation lab and throw chemicals to each other?” Delovoa asked.

“Do you know how someone even makes a mutant?” I asked derisively.

“Yes. And you don’t need glocken players,” Delovoa answered. “But, you know, you do need a lot of genetic material. How many of your players did they take?”

“Only a few of ours, but there are probably a hundred missing across all the different leagues. Why?” I asked.

Delovoa pondered this, his three eyes squinting in thought, his nose dripping in concentration.

“The Colmarian Confederation built their mutation schema from 50,000 species, adding anything and everything. It led to a lot of wild mutations, but many of them were horrible or even fatal. If I had the option of building a gene pool from scratch, professional glocken players would be a pretty damn good place to start. You’d have the best specimens the galaxy had to offer,” he said.

“It was Rettosians who wanted Procon Hobb’s skin, remember? They weren’t some religious fanatics like Podiver Vance said. I wonder if they wanted his ultra-rare telepathic genes,” I said.

“Yeah, it’s a good idea. I wish I had thought of that when I was making my new body instead of splicing gang hitmen and porn actors,” Delovoa said, annoyed.

“What?” Inspector MTB asked, interested.

“Nothing,” Delovoa replied.





CHAPTER 53




Of all the things I might do in preparation for the Super Class Championship against the Reskin Sleepers, going into outer space to try and fix a Portal wasn’t at the top of my list.

But I couldn’t refuse. MTB had told the Central Authority Murdaere that I was on my way.

I understood why they were concerned. While a busted Portal didn’t greatly affect me, it meant that dozens of Systems behind the Portal were cut off from the rest of the galaxy. I don’t know how many people that was, but presumably a lot more than my pay grade allowed me to ignore.

I was also worried that I might come under suspicion for the attack on the Reskin Sleepers training camp, so showing I was a delightfully-cooperative guy was a valuable asset.

Delovoa gave me a remote camera I would tote around so he could see what was going on. I also had a complicated toolbox that I hoped I wouldn’t have to deal with.

Zzzho was going to take me to the Portal in his taxi and there would be a point where I had to exit, and propel myself through space toward the enormous building and grab hold. Yeah, the gap would only be about five feet, but that was five feet where there was nothing in between me and nothing.

I was coming prepared.

I had my space suit. And a back-up space suit. And a back-up breathing system.

I also had Gun. I asked him if he could shoot in space and of course he didn’t know what space was or whether or not he had been in it. But he didn’t see any reason why he shouldn’t be able to. Then again, he didn’t see any reason why he should.

So I also brought a fifty-pound practice token. I had gotten fairly good at twisting them and it was an oversized blackjack if I needed to club someone. I didn’t want to bring any firearms because projectiles might bounce around and tear up my suit.

I really hoped not to meet anything out there, but I also hoped I would wake up one day and discover I could fart out gold bricks.

My hopes rarely came true.

“Hey, Stank Delicious. Just like old times. You off on some deadly mission, me charging you double-fare,” Zzzho said.

“You charged me double?” I asked, after loading in all my things.

“No, just a cabbie joke,” he said.

Since his voice was electronic, I had no idea if he was lying.

“Okay, I’m set,” I said.

The entire back seat of the cab was filled.

“You don’t do many spacewalks, do you?” Zzzho asked.

“No. Why?”

“Because you can’t have piles of crap back there, it has to be all sorted. Once the gravity is off and that door is open, everything is going to float around. You need to be able to move it in an orderly fashion back and forth,” he said.

Man, I hadn’t thought of that. I had so much stuff I would have to take multiple trips to unload it all. I was petrified of going out there even once. I didn’t want to make a dozen hops. What if I missed the taxi?

“What if I miss the taxi?” I asked.

“I’ll pick you up. It’s not like you’ll be going fast and no ship gets close to the Portals. Especially a broken one.”

“How will you know I missed?”

“I can see, you know. But you should also strap your tele on your wrist. It won’t do you any good in your pocket. Can you dial in those gloves?”

I beeped around a bit and while it was clunky, it seemed to work.

“This is terrible,” I said.

“Some people have microphones linked to their helmets.”

“Where can I get one?” I asked.

“How should I know? I don’t have a body. Look, we can’t sit at the dock forever. I only got a one-hour visa. Dump out some of that junk.”

“I need it all,” I said.

“I see at least two crates of food back there. You plan on setting up a colony?”

“What if I get trapped? I eat a lot,” I said.

“You got a tele and people know you’re there, do you think they’ll forget about you?”

I grumbled and hauled out some of the less-essential things. I paused over whether I should keep the escape raft but finally took it out as well.

I was down to a more manageable set of items that I could secure in two cargo nets. I left the glocken token behind because it was just too bulky.

“Come on, we got five minutes before they assess a fine for loitering,” Zzzho said.

“Why did you only schedule an hour?”

“The Super Class Championship is coming up. This dock is slammed with transports. If they knew you were leaving to go work on a Portal, they’d probably run out here and stop us.”

“Yeah, not a bad idea,” I said. “Okay, I think I’m pretty well done.”

“Bolting down and powering up,” Zzzho said.

We made our way to one of the broken Portals. Delovoa had chosen one of the newer ones as he thought it would be easier to repair or at least see what went wrong.

Even Delovoa figured this would mostly be an exploratory mission. I’d get over there, there would be some giant machine-a-majig that was busted, and then he would whip together a new one and get a team of actual engineers to install it.

We were about halfway to the Portal when I got a tele from none other than Xandale. I swear, his gigantic teeth took up half my screen.

“Hank, did I catch you at a bad time?” he asked sweetly.

He saw I was in a space suit of course.

“No, no, just hanging out,” I said. “What can I do for you?” I asked, pretending he hadn’t tried to get me killed on Mapposh 48 and presumably been behind a bunch of other things. There was no point in yelling at him, he was calling for something.

“I just wanted to see if you were interested in joining Univox Factotal. I spoke to the Board of Directors and they agreed to a rather tremendous package. I’m quite jealous,” he said.

“You have a Board of Directors?” I asked.

How many Factotums did this guy have?

“Yeah, I run the business but we’re all accountable at some point, right? What do you say you come in and we talk about it? Or I can come to you. I promise, with this much money you’ll be interested.”

“I can’t really do that at the moment. But like I said, I will definitely take it under consideration.”

“I’m afraid I need an answer right now.” He smiled sweetly.

“Hank, there’s a ship behind us,” Zzzho said.

I tried to turn around, which was silly because there were no windows back there and I had about ten seatbelts holding me in place.

“Sure, Xandale. I’ll get with you tomorrow, okay?” I said.

“It’s now or never, I’m afraid,” he replied.

“Hank, the ship behind us is transmitting that they have lost guidance and are out of control,” Zzzho said.

Oh, man, that was perfect. They couldn’t just open up and shoot at us, even if the ship was armed, which was doubtful. If any ship dared fire on another in Belvaille System, they’d have the Central Authority warships blow the crap out of them.

But they could run into us.

I muted my tele.

“Can you get away from them?” I asked Zzzho.

“That’s a sport shuttle. It’s about ten times faster and more maneuverable than this taxi. It seems like it’s going ‘out of control’ exactly where I try and dodge,” he replied.

“What will happen if it hits us?” I asked.

“I’ll be out a shuttle and you’ll be dead.”

“What will happen to you?”

“I’ll compress myself to a few cubic picometers. I’ll be fine. I’m calling for help now. But you need to get out or call them off.”

I turned off my tele. No point in talking to Xandale any longer.

I drew Gun and pointed it somewhere behind me.

“Gun, can you shoot them? The people in that spaceship?” I asked.

“What’s a spaceship?” he replied.

“Behind us! There are people in a…a…spaceship.” I didn’t know how else to describe it.

“Yes, I can,” Gun said.

“Then shoot them!”

“I can’t,” he replied calmly.

Why did I even ask?

“Okay, I’m going to push out, Zzzho. They won’t be able to say they accidentally smashed into you, then turned around and smashed into me. No ship is that perfectly out of control. Vent the gas and kill the gravity,” I said.

“Good luck, Hank,” Zzzho said.

I thought of something right before the air was released.

“Gun, when we’re outside, shoot anyone I point you at. Or shoot the ship. Shoot something,” I said.

I don’t know if he heard me as the air sucked out with a hiss.

I unbuckled myself, the side door swung open, and there it was: space. Ready to swallow me like a big black ocean. We were so far away from the usual traffic there was nothing in my view. Not one light. It was just solid ink other than the glow from the taxi. There could be a black wall an inch away from the door and I wouldn’t know.

I gripped both sides of the doorframe and pulled myself out into the nothingness.

Resisting the distinct urge to windmill my arms and legs to try and orient myself, I pulled out Gun. I could see the ship following us. It was back over my right shoulder.

I aimed in its general direction and said “fire” and pressed the non-existent trigger. Of course, I was in space so Gun couldn’t hear me.

The ship was coming so fast. I could see there were windows in the front. It was exponentially larger than the taxi.

The ship was getting near when all of a sudden I got really tired.

It was suddenly like a dream. Every window on that ship ruptured and a dozen bodies came flying out.

I was too sleepy to even gawk as the enormous vessel flew past me and crashed into Zzzho’s taxi. I’m always thinking there should be a sound or some fireworks, but it was nothing. The taxi just crumpled and then shattered like a cheap plastic toy.

The larger ship continued onward but I couldn’t see it any longer as it was behind me and I was too drained to give a damn.

I must have dozed off or passed out or some combination.

I woke up and I was talking to myself.

Or not exactly. Was I still asleep?

“You need to return to Belvaille,” I thought to myself.

“I know,” I said. I checked my oxygen and I still had hours left. Why was I so loopy?

“You need to return to Belvaille immediately,” I thought again.

“Do you have any ideas, smart guy?” I asked.

“This is Procon Hobb. You need to return to Belvaille,” I said with my mental voice again.

Oh. I tried to think of a response.

“Um, I’m a little busy. I’m kind of floating in space,” I thought.

“I’m aware of your location. You must return,” Procon Hobb said.

“I’d love to. Or we could talk now,” I thought.

“I do not wish to see you,” he said.

“You just said you did. What is it with everyone and their double-speak?” I thought. Then I realized he could hear my thoughts. “Strike that last part,” I added.

“I am merely relaying a message for another,” he said.

“You? Who are you being a messenger for?” I asked, shocked.

“We all bow to the whims of the Boranjame,” he replied.





CHAPTER 54




It wasn’t as hard to get out of deep space as I thought.

I had tried to tell Procon Hobb to get help, but he either hung up my brain or didn’t relay the message. I attempted a few dozen tele calls but I kept misdialling and then I couldn’t talk to the people I reached, because my receiver was outside my helmet.

Thankfully, Zzzho had radioed for help before we got fender-bended.

MTB and the C.A. already knew of my plans to visit the Portal since they requested and authorized it. They dispatched a ship to collect me in less than fifteen minutes.

The C.A. handled the pick-up quite well. They have to remove debris and space junk all the time to keep the lanes clear, so I was just one more piece of waste. When the ship got near, Zzzho expanded himself to the size of a small nebula and I was able to point out that my cab driver also needed a lift.

I asked about the ship that had rammed us and learned that it had been restrained by tug boats. They didn’t even have to fake that it was out of control because there were corpses of half the crew and the observation windows were all blown out.

The C.A. was investigating that last part, but I felt the case would remain unsolved. There wasn’t much evidence to prove the deaths were caused by a talking Rettosian philosopher-pistol wielded by a Super Class glocken player drifting in space.

Unfortunately, Xandale didn’t seem to be on the ship. He must have called me from somewhere safe. Figures he would send his lackeys to do his dirty work.



Needless to say I didn’t make it to the Portal.

I returned to Belvaille and, per Procon Hobb’s instructions, I was now standing in front of the imposing Boranjame, Zeti.

I hadn’t even showered from my space journey and I had soiled myself at least twice—space was scary. But Zeti didn’t have a nose and I didn’t want to keep him waiting any longer.

When the Po servants had finished setting up the speakers they all ran away and hid. That did not bode well.

“Did you find and stop The End?” Zeti asked.

“You’re still talking about Thad Elon, right?” I asked.

“That would be a name you might associate with him,” Zeti replied.

“You see the problem is I don’t really hang out with people like that. I’m more of a commoner. I’ve met and even had dinner with the Arch Minister, but I don’t meet many creators of civilization. I think they live in a different neighborhood.”

“You have already met it,” Zeti said.

“I have?” I asked, shocked.

You would think I would remember someone like that. You don’t tend to bump into demigods and not notice—I assume.

“I am not permitted to say more,” Zeti said. “But it is paramount you defeat it.”

I thought about how I should phrase this next part.

“I’d totally like to help. But I really have no clue what you’re talking about. Are you Thad Elon?”

Zeti was about the closest to a supreme anything I’d ever met. Maybe this was some oddball way of him asking to commit suicide. His house was getting a little cramped.

“You know him well. More than most,” Zeti added slowly. As if that blurb was going to shine a light.

“Is it Cliston?”

It would be just like Cliston to be the creator of my species and not brag about it. I know if I created a species, I would be telling everyone.

There was a long pause and I was waiting for Zeti. I hope I didn’t piss him off by being flippant, but I wasn’t sure what else to do.

“I knowingly accept the consequences of my actions,” Zeti said ominously. “The End, the First and Last, Thad Elon, is also known as Irune.”





CHAPTER 55




I was back at my house, drinking.

Trying to drink enough that this all would make sense.

The man-god of the universe was the coach of the Reskin Sleepers?

In a way it all fit. Who else could make that team win? Not only win, but dominate? In violation of millennia of precedent and even Ank laws of probability.

Irune said hi to me. I felt pretty good about that. The lord of the Colmarian Confederation, Ontakian revolution, Keilvin Kamigan technology, Dredel Led brains, called me by name.

But I also tried to shoot him. Well, Gun did. I could blame Gun. And the fact he was Thad Elon might explain why Gun, a grenade, and two flamethrowers didn’t even slow him down.

Why would Zeti care about Irune, though? He even said the Boranjame blew up his solar system. That had to piss him off. That’s probably why he created the Colmarian Confederation, as payback, knowing they would screw up the entire galaxy.

Was he behind the mutations?

I thought it was Irune building his team, but that couldn’t be it. Zeti wouldn’t care about glocken, would he? If Zeti did care, I didn’t see much I could do. There was no way we were going to beat the Reskin Sleepers. It just wasn’t going to happen.

I needed to talk to Irune. Thad Elon. Without him killing me or me trying to kill him. Without his Rettosian guards or mutant pals.

Just sit down and ask him:

“Hey, what are you doing that a Boranjame would want you dead?”

Actually, Zeti didn’t say I had to kill Irune. He just said stop him.

Shouldn’t be that hard, right?



I talked to Cliston and told him what Zeti said.

I then asked if he could set up a meeting with Irune.

“I could, and it wouldn’t be unusual. We could use the pretense of working out all the details of the Championship. The problem is, Irune has never met with anyone in the past, it has always been assistants,” he said.

“Tell him that the Championship won’t go on unless you can meet with him personally and get steel-clad assurances on certain issues,” I said.

“Which issues?”

“Certain ones. I don’t know. He should be scared enough to come if he thinks the Championship is in jeopardy,” I said.

“If the Championship fails to go off, millions of people will riot and our lives will not be worth very much,” Cliston warned.

“I know that. He doesn’t,” I said.

“If he really is Thad Elon, he must know that. And you may assume he knows far more than we do.”

“If he’s Thad Elon and his next miracle is taking the Reskin Sleepers to victory in the Championship, he won’t have a problem meeting with a Dredel Led for thirty minutes.”

“I’ll see what I can do,” Cliston said.





CHAPTER 56




“If I didn’t need you to play I would beat the piss out of you!” Magda screamed at me.

I was sitting in my office at home in my special massaging chair. It had been given to me by Maris-To. Half the motors were broken because it couldn’t deal with the stress of jiggling my large frame, but it worked enough to make my left butt-cheek, my right shoulder, and my left lower back feel really good.

I was about to wonder how she got in my door when I saw my uncle Frank come in after her.

“Did you just break in?” I asked. I was surprised because that was a three-inch-thick metal door. Frank was strong but he wasn’t that strong. Not even I could bust in my door.

“Nah, picked the lock,” he said.

“Why are you sitting here and not at practice?” she asked.

“I have a meeting with Irune in a few hours.”

“Why in the eight hells are you meeting with him? Is he going to tell you his game plan?”

“I hope,” I said.

She shook her head and pointed to Frank.

“Bring him. I don’t have time for this.”

Frank started to walk forward and I reluctantly got up from my chair.

“Uncle, come on. I need to do this. Besides, what are you going to do to me? I weigh like seven times as much as you,” I said.

Frank feigned a right cross, which I didn’t bother blocking, then he ducked in low, I felt a tug, then he stood upright and was pointing Gun at me.

“Hey,” I said, looking down at my empty holster.

“Rettosian gun, can you see who I’m pointing you at?” Frank asked.

“Yes,” Gun answered.

“If I tell you to shoot him can you do that?” he asked.

“Yes, but it won’t cause much damage,” Gun said.

“Doesn’t have to,” Frank replied.

“Gun. It’s me, Hank. Don’t shoot,” I said.

But then I remembered Gun couldn’t hear me unless I was holding him. Wow, what fickle loyalty.

“Quit being a baby. All we have to do is some wind sprints and run some plays. It won’t kill you,” Frank said.

“Is she paying you for this?” I asked.

“It was in my contract. So, yeah,” he said.

“What are you getting paid?” I asked, curious.

“Thirty a week.”

“Thirty million?” I asked.

“Yup.”

“That’s more than me!” I turned to Magda. “Why is he making more than me? He’s a way lower lane and doesn’t have my experience.”

“The general manager sets pay scales. Talk to him. Now come on,” she said.

“You got that from Cliston? Is he also your sports agent?” I asked.

“Huh? No.”

“Bastard. Well, look. I have a meeting and I need to be in the right mindset and you all are throwing me off. This is a meeting requested by Zeti, the Boranjame,” I said.

Frank’s eyebrows raised and he looked back at Magda.

Magda’s mouth was ajar and for once she didn’t have any bluster.

“Hold on, I’m calling the G.M.,” she said, and she walked into the hallway.

“You don’t have to call him,” I yelled. “He’s downstairs making me pancakes.”

“Come on, Frank,” she said, sticking her head back in.

“Just me?” he confirmed.

“Yeah,” she grumbled.

Frank tossed me Gun and left without an apology or even a “so long.” He was definitely related to me.





CHAPTER 57




The meeting with Irune took place at a neutral building. It was a restaurant in the north that served only live food.

It had all kinds of safety railings and cages and employee-only doors. They even had harpoons and nets here and there on the pillars and I got the sense they weren’t decorative.

The place reeked. It smelled bad. There was only so much you could do to kill the odor of animals native to fifty different worlds dying on dinner plates.

We’d rented out the whole building for the day, so it was empty.

The Reskin Sleepers’ security arrived about the same time as I did.

“Hi, Hank. Take any good trips lately?” Xandale asked good-naturedly.

“Haven’t you learned not to send your rookies after me, Xandale?”

“Not sure what you mean,” he smiled.

A few of his Factotums came in with him and I was wondering if I was foolish to come early. I wanted to make sure the place was safe before Cliston arrived, but now that Xandale saw me, he might tell Irune not to come.

I really wanted to know what his connection was with the Reskin Sleepers but I couldn’t get sidetracked now.

Cliston was on time, of course, and sat at one of the tables, ignoring everyone else. He began organizing his papers and tele. He really expected to have a conversation with Irune about the game.

Then we waited.

I admit I was nervous. I didn’t often meet legends or myths. If I doubted him, I only had to look at the Reskin Sleepers and what he had done with them.

I had been slowly reducing the overall pimpness of my wardrobe for some time. Cliston was so busy with our games that he didn’t notice or chastise me. Today I was dressed conservatively in a black suit and white tie. If I was really going to meet Thad Elon, I didn’t want to look like a caricature from an exploitation video.

We had waited so long I was just about to ask if Irune would be joining us when Xandale’s Factotums began talking on their headphones and I knew something was up.

A moment later, Irune—Thad Elon—walked through the front doors.

He was dressed in a tan suit and dark glasses and, I must say, did not seem like he could build civilization across the galaxy. Maybe it was the fact he was wearing brown loafers.

“Irune,” I began, wasting no time, “I need to speak to you.”

“Back off, chump. This is glocken business with your general manager,” Xandale said.

Irune turned to me.

“Hello again, Hank. What is it you wish to speak about?” he said. His voice was low and dull and again made me think there had to be some mistake about his identity.

Maybe he was like, Thord Elon, Thad’s long-lost, underachieving cousin. It was possible. I recently found out I had an uncle of ill repute.

“I’d like to talk alone, if we could,” I said.

“Forget it! Hit the road,” Xandale said, reaching down for his gun.

“Why would I want to talk to you?” Irune asked. It wasn’t snide or pompous, it was a legitimate question.

I wasn’t sure how to broach this. I was taking a guess that he had tried to maintain secrecy about pretty much everything, so he wouldn’t want anyone else present when we spoke.

“It’s about Thad Elon,” I said uneasily.

He betrayed no emotions. Xandale looked to Irune, waiting for a response. His Factotum were itching for a fight. If they were going for weapons, presumably they had something that could hurt me.

“Very well,” Irune said, after a painfully long time.

Cliston quietly packed up his things and walked out.

Xandale and his cronies were unsure, but Irune took a seat at a table. I waved goodbye to Xandale and joined Irune.

“Let us know if you need any assistance,” Xandale called.

They filed out and I was alone with the Grand Creator.

“I know you’re Thad Elon,” I said.

“And how is it you know that?” he asked.

“The Boranjame told me.”

For the first time ever, he showed some emotion.

“Ugh. The Boranjame. They are the biggest meddlers in the galaxy.”

“So it’s true?” I asked, amazed.

“I’m not entirely sure where that name came from, but if there is a Thad Elon, I would be the closest representation of him, yes.”

I was floored. I felt my legs go tingly. But then again, that could be my bad circulation.

“Why…” And I had so many questions, I wasn’t sure where to start. “Why are you playing glocken?” I finally asked.

“I don’t see a reason why I should tell you anything, I’m afraid,” Thad Elon said.

What was I going to do, threaten him?

“I-I know who destroyed your solar system,” I said. Hoping this might work. I didn’t have a lot of bargaining chips to offer a god.

“How could you possibly know that? It was billions of years before your species even existed,” he replied.

“The Boranjame told me,” I repeated.

He sat thinking about that.

“Tell me, then,” he replied.

“If I do, you have to tell me what you’re up to. What you’re doing that might be dangerous. Or the Boranjame might consider dangerous,” I said.

“You’re proposing an exchange? I can’t say what the Boranjame consider dangerous. I’m doubtful they have much care for the lives of anything in this galaxy. But you tell me what you know. I will answer some questions if I feel they are appropriate,” he said.

I didn’t see I had a lot of options.

“The Boranjame,” I said.

“Yes. The Boranjame told you,” he replied.

“No, the Boranjame destroyed your solar system. They said they created you. And it was a mistake—I mean, it was a mistake to destroy your solar system.”

I sat there with nothing. That was about everything I knew, and it wasn’t a lot.

Thad Elon pondered that a while, looking off to the side.

And then, Thad Elon suddenly looked very pissed off.

“Did Zeti tell you this?” he asked.

“Yes,” I answered.

“I suppose I should have known that,” Thad Elon sighed. “You and I have met before.”

“That’s what Zeti told me. I’m sorry, I don’t remember,” I apologized.

“I looked somewhat different then,” he said.

Thad Elon then casually reached up and took off his sunglasses.

I saw myself reflected in his dark eyes. His eyes were pure black: pupil, iris, sclera.

“Naked Guy!” I shouted.

That was the name I had given this man who didn’t require a name. He had single-handedly caused the civil war that had decimated the galaxy and ended the Colmarian Confederation. He had done it because he had “never seen a galactic civil war before.” That’s it. That was his only reason: because he thought it would be interesting.

He was billions of years old and apparently got bored easily.

“I disintegrated you!” I said.

“Yes, you did. I want to thank you for that. When I was reborn I had forgotten how entertaining the galaxy could be—with a little help.”

“Glocken?” I asked, stumped.

“What of it?” he asked.

“That’s your plan? To make the Reskin Sleepers win the Championship? Using mutants?”

Sure, it was a monumental effort, but for someone who had done all the things that he was supposed to have done, it seemed like he was slacking.

“Do you really think glocken is of any concern to me?”

I wasn’t sure if it was a trick question.

“Um. Maybe?”

“When I was reborn, I did not have the resources I formerly did. I needed a backer to help me implement my plans. Ulteem was willing to provide me with substantial resources if I could guarantee him gaming revenue. The Reskin Sleepers winning provided him with tremendous earnings,” Irune said.

“That doesn’t make sense, Ulteem wanted us to attack your team. We did.”

“Yes. He did not inform me of that ahead of time. He can be irksome in that regard. His plan, I believe, was to notify security and have you and your teammates be eliminated in the assault, thus ensuring our victory—as if we needed help. But apparently, you met someone inside you were already acquainted with.”

“Yeah, my uncle.”

“Ah. In any case, it doesn’t matter. I have replaced the whole team with new players. They are guaranteed success,” he said.

“But why? I’m a Reskin Sleepers fan, or I was, but what does it matter? Money?”

“Several reasons. Do you know of the Ank Formula?”

“A bit. They said the Reskin Sleepers winning was bad,” I said.

“I doubt even they understand their own Formula—the Ank love complexity to an absurd degree. If the Reskin Sleepers win the Championship, their precious Formula will break. It’s why I chose this team. Credits will become meaningless and banks will be insolvent. The galaxy will be reduced to barter and trade overnight,” he said.

“What will that do? Are you trying to turn us back to the stone age?” I asked, frustrated.

“The galaxy was interesting after the civil war. So much changing so fast. But things have become monotonous once again. You are not advancing. There is too much power consolidated in too few hands. I decided that the galaxy needs more variety. The Colmarian Confederation was always exciting because you could never predict what its citizens were capable of. Every city on every planet had its own laws and codes and heroes and villains. It was truly unique,” he said.

“You’re talking about mutants?” I asked.

“Yes. I believe, next to the Portals, mutations were the greatest boon to life in the galaxy,” he said.

“Just because it made things interesting? I think given the choice, most species would take calm and boring over a dice roll of being horribly crippled or wonderfully powerful.”

“Of course they would. They would choose blissful stagnation. They would even choose regression if it provided comfort. But those things are the death of a species. Mutants made you constantly adapt.”

“Well, I guess that’s one opinion,” I said delicately. “But you still only created a handful of mutants. That’s not anything in terms of the population of the galaxy.”

“No, it’s not. But the number of people in this System to watch the Championship is a significant number,” he said.

And it hit me.

“You’re going to mutate the whole System?” I asked, shocked.

“Yes.”

“How are you going to do it? I thought mutations were like biology and stuff. And it had to be at birth,” I said.

Thad Elon flashed the smallest of grins and replaced his sunglasses.

“I’ve answered a fair number of your questions in exchange for what you’ve told me. But now I think we are, as they say, ‘even.’” he replied.

He stood up from the table and turned to go.

What could I do? I knew the guy was effectively immortal. I disintegrated him and he didn’t look any worse for wear. In fact, he looked a lot better than when I knew him as Naked Guy. Cut his hair and put on some decent clothes.

“You’re the First and Last,” I said to his back.

He half-turned around.

“And what is that?”

“I don’t know, it’s what Zeti said. I thought you might have an idea.”

“Let me tell you one last thing about your Boranjame. When they destroy solar systems or planets, do you think they choose randomly or do you think they do it with a purpose?”

I didn’t know what to say. I couldn’t understand half of what the Boranjame told me let alone their motivations.

“They eradicated my entire solar system in an effort to kill me. Do you have any idea how many innocent lives were lost?” he asked.

“I doubt nearly as many as died in the civil war you caused,” I said, immediately wondering if I had gone too far.

He seemed to contemplate that.

“You are correct. But hopefully my methods at this stage are somewhat more refined. Good day, Hank,” he said, as he exited the restaurant.





CHAPTER 58




How many people were in Belvaille System for the Championship?

Were they all going to be mutated?

I couldn’t imagine the havoc that would cause. In the old days, Colmarians grew up with their mutations and learned how to deal with them. If people could suddenly explode or punch through walls or shoot lasers out of their ears, it was going to get messy around here.

There could even be another civil war.

Though if the financial system was ruined, I’m not certain what there would be left to fight over.

After the meeting with Thad Elon, I went outside the restaurant and found Cliston had taken my limo. With the Championship in full swing, I couldn’t catch a cab, they were all hired out.

What I was worried about—one of many things—was Zeti.

To trade for information, I had told Thad Elon that the Boranjame had been responsible for his planet’s destruction. As I recall, after that happened, he floated through space for eons.

I don’t know if he was one to hold grudges, but if he was, Zeti would be in for one hell of a retribution.

I kept trying to hail a cab as I jogged across town. Zeti didn’t have a tele number that I knew of. Once you get past ten stories tall, you’re probably unlisted.

As I ran, I left a message for Cliston.

“Talked to Thad Elon. Naked Guy. Irune. He says he’s changed his whole team. He’s going to wreck the Ank financial Formula by wrecking our team in the Championship. Get with Magda and brainstorm. We have to win,” I said.

I then called up Delovoa.

“Hey. Shut up. Listen. Irune is Naked Guy. He said he’s going to mutate the entire System. Do you know how he could do that?”

“Sounds pretty far-fetched,” Delovoa said.

I banged my tele as if I could slap Delovoa.

“This is Naked Guy, remember? The guy I disintegrated. The guy who started the civil war. The guy who created a clone army.”

“Oh, yeah,” Delovoa said, remembering. “Let’s leave the System. I just got a new body and I don’t want it getting mutated.”

“Just think about how he could do it,” I said.

“I can only assume it wouldn’t be like how the Colmarian Confederation did it. That required extensive treatment on an individual basis,” he answered.

“Okay, well then not that. I need to go. Think how else he could do it,” I said, hanging up.



I couldn’t catch a cab no matter what I did. I was about to jump in the street and try and grab a car, but I didn’t want to get run over for no reason. I still had to play in the Championship.

Turn after turn, block after block, I was reminded how bad I was at running.

Or jogging.

Or I guess I was kind of fast-walking at this point.

I went around another corner and my brain tried to jump out of my skull because I saw something I couldn’t comprehend.

Flying through the air, like an oversized glocken token, was Zeti.

Just flying.

This was a fifteen-story, crystalline being travelling at what looked like a leisurely pace through the sky.

I didn’t know Boranjame could fly.

And then he hit a skyscraper and shattered!

I never heard such a noise. It was like the biggest porcelain plate in the galaxy being hit by the biggest mallet in the galaxy. It was…beautiful.

There were cascades upon cascades of crystals blossoming and blooming outward.

Out toward me.

I crouched, turned my back, and covered myself.

There followed what seemed like minutes of shards breaking. Each one that hit the ground shattered again and then those pieces would hit something and shatter further.

I was expecting to get eviscerated by all those jagged spears, but I didn’t feel a thing. It was like they were bubbles.

When the sound died down to a low, persistent tinkling, I hazarded a look around.

There was nothing left.

A few of the larger shards were still splintering, but I noticed when they got to a certain size, they simply faded away. Maybe they were still breaking apart at the microscopic level. There was no damage done to the area that I could tell.

I hurried over to the building where I had seen Zeti hit. Not even the windows were broken. I never dreamed Zeti was so fragile.

Was that how a Boranjame died?

What were the consequences of killing a member of that species?

I was thinking this over and trying to catch my breath, when a familiar blur appeared before me.

I had to blink and look away, but I knew it was a Po, one of Zeti’s many-armed servants. It was moving so fast I was getting dizzy.

It grabbed hold of my pants, my jacket, my tie, my sleeves, my nose, my hair, my ears and began tugging.

“Okay! Okay! It’s all connected, let go! I’m coming,” I said, after smacking away a hand from my mouth.

It was still pulling on me when I saw more Po join the herd.

They all began heaving and hauling until I found myself airborne and rolling among the hundreds of hands that were carrying me.

I was on the verge of throwing up when I was deposited unceremoniously on the ground.

“Oof!”

In front of me was a glowing round sphere, maybe two feet in diameter. It was dark blue and was emanating a dim light.

“Zeti?” I asked.

But he didn’t have his speakers so he couldn’t talk to me. I didn’t know how to communicate with a ball of light. The Po grabbed my hands and pulled me, making it clear I was supposed to hold the sphere.

When I touched Zeti it was like sticking my hands on a spaceship battery. I felt like I was being electrocuted to death.

“Hank,” I heard a voice say. It sounded exactly like Zeti’s voice always had.

“Ow,” I replied.

“You must listen to me. The First and Last was created by the Boranjame.”

“Got it! Can I let go?”

“Please listen. We also have a myth. In the beginning there was no life, for it was impossible. The galaxy was in perfect symmetry. There was but one Boranjame who had been created by Order itself. After some time, the first Boranjame grew lonely or tired of the equilibrium and managed to change itself. It was then capable of growing and splitting, and the ripples of this disorder spread across the galaxy. Life began to form.”

I held on and tried to ignore the fact I was getting fried. I also did my best to commit this to memory as I didn’t think he would repeat it.

“With new life there was also the chance of what you call mutations. Not evolutionary in nature, they are caused by the Boranjame. Our existence makes them possible. Thad Elon was the first one and…he cannot be destroyed while any other life endures. We have foreseen that he will one day destroy all living things in the galaxy so that he can finally end his own existence. Most of my kind believe this is our punishment for disrupting the original Order of the galaxy and there is no possibility of its escape. But I don’t believe that is true. I believe he can be stopped.”

“What can I do? I’ve tried to kill him before and failed,” I said.

“You cannot kill Thad Elon, but you can disrupt his plans. The only great power at his disposal is infinite time. And that is a curse as well as a blessing,” Zeti said.

“How is he going to mutate people?” I asked.

“I cannot tell you,” Zeti replied.

“Then why start? Why do you keep dragging me into things? Why not just give me the answers if you’re so concerned?” I yelled.

Zeti, for once, sounded weary.

“We do not possess the same free wills that you have. That was the great joke played upon us. When we introduced change, we became slaves to destiny. We Boranjame like to fancy we are beings of Order, but sometimes I have my doubts.”

“Well, good for you. How can I stop him from destroying the galaxy? I can’t even beat his glocken team.”

“Just as the Boranjame are restricted, so is Thad Elon. As an agent of Chaos, he will always move to bring about the greatest change and destruction. It is his nature. It is his purpose.”

“So wait, if he’s stopped, would that also stop change? Or Chaos? Or Good Times? Or Midnight Dancing? This is a lot heavier stuff than I’m used to handling. I mean, if he ran out on a debt, I’d be the perfect guy. I don’t understand why I keep getting involved,” I complained.

“Because it is your destiny. I could not have told someone else and they could not have listened,” Zeti said.

“So if I try and tell someone else, will I explode or something?”

“You are not bound as we are. Which gives me hope that you may help us.”

“I’m going to help you all. The Boranjame?” I asked, thinking what I might ask in return.

“You would not benefit greatly from all life being destroyed,” Zeti said, showing why you don’t negotiate with demigods or super aliens.

“What if I can’t stop him? He lives forever, right?”

“You cannot stop him forever,” Zeti said.

“Then what’s the point?”

“You cannot stop him forever because you do not live forever. You are destined to be betrayed and murdered by your best friend. Unloved, your corpse deserted in the coldness of space, where memory of you will swiftly become less substantial than the faded light of a long-dead star,” he said.

“Yeah, yeah. I heard that before. So when I’m all cold and dead, he’s going to destroy the galaxy?”

“We will attempt to find someone else to fight him. And we will continue until we finally fail, or the end of time,” Zeti said.

“That’s job security, I guess. Alright. Well, you look pretty bad—as far as crystals go. Are you dying?”

I was being facetious, but I felt like an awful lot had been laid on my shoulders and I wasn’t altogether happy about it.

“Yes, I am dying, Hank. But not all deaths are forever. You should take that to heart,” he said.

His light slowly faded out and when it did so, Zeti vanished entirely.

I found myself standing completely alone.





CHAPTER 59




My hands weren’t burnt despite clinging to a radioactive Zeti husk. Maybe it was the disturbing news he told me that only made it feel like I was on fire.

But in any case, there wasn’t much I could do. I headed to the training facility so I could meet with Cliston. I needed some opinions other than mine. Because my opinion was that I should get the hell out of here before I was forced to get murderized in the Championship, and if by some miracle I survived, I would get mutated.

It took me an hour to reach the training camp, though I stopped for snacks a few times.

Magda, Garm, and Cliston were all arguing heatedly.

“What’s this about, Stank?” Magda asked.

“Zeti is dead. Irune killed him—I think. He’s dead for sure—or pretty sure. Death isn’t always deadly, you know. Anyway, Irune, Thad Elon, Naked Guy, is trying to win the Championship so he can make money worthless,” I said.

They all stared at me like I had suddenly put on a funny hat, slathered myself with raw meat, and began doing interpretive ballet moves.

“What the hell are you talking about?” Magda asked after a moment.

“Irune is the person who caused the Colmarian civil war. The Ank warned me that if the Reskin Sleepers kept winning, it would damage the galaxy’s financial system. But if they win the Championship, it will totally ruin it.”

“You said they acquired new players?” Cliston asked.

“That’s what Thad Elon said.”

“Who is Thad Elon?” Garm asked.

“Naked Guy. Irune. It’s all the same person,” I said.

“Are you high?” Magda asked. “Is this some way for you to try and get out of practice?”

“There was one person who brought about the civil war, Magda. Hank, I thought you killed him,” Garm said.

“So did I. Apparently he can’t be killed. Kind of sucks,” I said.

“Why would the financial network collapse?” Cliston asked.

“The Ank based part of it on the fact the Reskin Sleepers never win. That’s like some Universal Truth they plugged into their Formula. If they win, the whole banking system is gone,” I said.

“Do we have to win?” Garm asked.

“If you don’t want to be getting paid for your Quadrad services in buttons and beads, yeah,” I said.

“No, but is it necessary for us to beat the Reskin Sleepers or is it enough that they don’t win?” Garm asked.

“Um. I don’t know. I know it’s bad that they’ve won any games. Since we can’t possibly win, I say we just don’t play them.”

“If we don’t play, we forfeit,” Magda replied.

“Are you sure about this, Hank?” Garm asked.

“The Ank told me and Thad Elon told me. Those are pretty good sources,” I answered.

“They couldn’t have acquired and trained top-notch players in this short a time. And I would know if they had gotten any star players. It would be all over the news. We should have a better chance of beating them if they changed all their players like you said,” Magda assured us.

“If they weren’t all mutants being created from scratch, you might have a point,” I disagreed.





CHAPTER 60




I had one day to conduct some final business of my own.

I was going to buy a spaceship.

Yes, I had a lot of money. Jewels. Fancy clothes. And my prized possession was my home on Belvaille. But if money really became worthless, none of that stuff would matter. The way I figured it, I would need something tangible that I could secure.

A spaceship could fly away. A house couldn’t.

I tasked Zzzho with buying me one, since I knew nothing about ships. He almost immediately replied with a half-dozen ideas. He had been looking for a new ship ever since his taxi got creamed.

With me as a buyer, however, he went into a whole other realm.

“I got the perfect ship for you, Hank. But you need Central Authority permission,” he said on the tele.

“I don’t have that. Wait. Of course I do. I’ll just ring up the Murdaere and say I need it to work on the Portals. What is the ship?” I asked.

“It’s an old Colmarian Navy corvette. More of a gunboat, really,” he said.

“They aren’t going to let me have a gunboat! They don’t let any ship have weapons,” I said.

“They took them off. It’s unarmed. This is a ship that’s been sitting in space unused for like ten years,” he said.

“Why? What’s wrong with it?”

“Nothing, it’s perfect. It just doesn’t fit what the C.A. like. It’s only got two turrets that can’t hold very big cannons. There’s only space for six others besides the crew, and not much cargo. It’s slow, old, and complicated. And it’s really ugly.”

“Why would I want that?”

“Because it’s a military ship! It has turrets, even if there are no guns in it now. It still has the full automated fire control system. Ship combat is really difficult, you can’t aim and shoot using your eyeballs. Ships are too fast, maneuverable, and the distances too large. The ship is also incredibly efficient. It has old Colmarian Navy reactors. If I used my energy cells in it, I could fly it clear across the galaxy—and that’s not even a joke.”

“I don’t need any of that stuff,” I said.

“I haven’t told you the best part.”

“What’s the best part? It better be that this thing makes me grow younger, because so far I wouldn’t spend a credit on it.”

“It wasn’t a real warship. It was a communications and command ship. They’d use it to direct traffic among bigger ships.”

“Who am I going to direct?” I asked.

“Nobody. But because it didn’t have big guns or heavy armor or speed, what it had was electronic countermeasures. It can fly almost invisible—once it’s fixed up. And it can jam other ships.”

“Does that stuff still work?” I asked.

“It should. I don’t think anyone knows it’s there. But for someone like you, it might come in handy,” he said.

Zzzho quoted me the price and it was astronomical. I would actually have to liquidate some of my hard assets and fast.

I got Delovoa and Garm on the tele. Delovoa said he could hook it up so Zzzho could operate all the main systems. It wouldn’t be hard. Apparently, Keilvin Kamigans are used as ship crews quite frequently because of their abilities. Garm also confirmed the ship was used for communications relay and that, yes, it could be stealthy.

Garm had once been an Adjunct Overwatch in the Colmarian Navy. Specifically, she was in the Colmarian Intelligence Services. Belvaille still had a collection of giant radio telescopes it used to broadcast across the galaxy.

“Should I buy the ship?” I asked them.

“If you want a Navy ship, I guess. It’s really old,” Garm said.

“That actually works out better,” Delovoa interrupted. “The older ships weren’t such fuel-guzzlers. Because the Confederation had to scrimp on supplies. I would be able to fit some pretty nice cannons in that as well—for a price,” Delovoa said.

“I’m not trying to take over the galaxy, I just want—.”

“A way to get out of Belvaille?” Garm interrupted.



I didn’t end up contacting the Murdaere. I was too scared. I called MTB and he was the co-signer on the ship with me, even though he didn’t pay anything. Since he was Central Authority, he could purchase it without any issues.

I also told MTB, while he was doing me this favor, what was going on with everything else. He already knew about Naked Guy from stories I told back when we worked together.

“Things are getting really bad here in the C.A., too. If you looked out in space, you would see all our military ships sitting in little clusters. They’re dividing themselves up,” MTB said.

“Are they going to attack each other? Or Belvaille?” I asked, alarmed.

“I don’t think so. Those ships are too valuable to risk in a fight. We don’t have the means of repairing them if they get tore up. But you never know, people can be stupid and they might try something.”

“Yeah. Hey, can you get my ship transferred quick? A gas cloud is going to be picking it up and piloting it for me. He’s going to use it as a taxi until I need to bug out of here,” I said.

“It’s basically derelict. You could probably fly it out without anyone even noticing,” MTB said.

“Well, crap, what did I pay all my money for?”

“In case some cruiser saw it and blew you to hell,” he answered.

“Oh.”

“What do you want the name registered as? I’m filling out the request now.”

“Um, ‘Suckface,’” I said.

“Most names are alpha-numeric. Like NJJ3937BD,” he said. “That’s its current name.”

“Is Suckface taken?”

“No,” MTB sighed.

“Did you check? You answered pretty fast.”

“I’m sure Suckface is not taken,” he replied.

“Good. Then call it that.”

“So you’re really getting a ship? You always said you hated space.”

“I do. But, you know, I hate the ground too. And stairs. And high elevations. And the sewers. Most places are pretty crappy once you get to know them. But if things go bad, I don’t want to have to stick out my thumb to try and bum a ride to safety.”





CHAPTER 61




For once, I was pretty optimistic about things.

Yes, I was poor. I owned a clunky ship I didn’t know how to fly. I had to play a game against a team of mutants who would certainly beat me like a masochist at a whip and paddle convention.

But I felt like I was ahead of the curve.

I knew we would lose. But it’s not like I’d die. If the game got too dangerous, we would quit. Or hell, I’d quit. When we lost, something bad would happen with the economy. But then it wouldn’t matter that I was poor because money wouldn’t mean much.

I had my wits, my looks, and my charm—which were all kind of handicaps, but I also had my connections, my experience, and mutation.

The only thing I was worried about was Thad Elon’s plans to mutate the System. But Delovoa said whatever means he was going to use probably wouldn’t affect me. I was already a mutant, I was invulnerable to scanning and many toxins. If they could mutate me, they would probably kill everyone else.

And if I did get mutated, maybe I’d become really skinny and fast and smart.



It was the day of the Championship and I had been trying to isolate myself from the whirlwind of anticipation that gripped the Belvaille System.

We were going to get trashed and everyone knew it. It was only a big deal because it would be the first time the Reskin Sleepers ever won the Championship.

People were gambling like there was no tomorrow. Not on the game so much. They were gambling on crazy stuff. The Reskin Sleepers were proof that the longest of longshots could actually pay off. So why not put down a credit or two on a wager that a neutron star spontaneously turned into a giant bottle of beer? Bookies were making a killing coming up with fantastical wagers, attracting people by showing what the payout would have been if they had bet on the Reskin Sleepers all season.



The Belvaille Glocken Team had to go to the weigh in.

This was the first look we’d have at the new Sleepers’ team and what positions they would be playing.

The space station was on complete lockdown, with security provided by the C.A., the various leagues, private gangs, and just about anyone registered to carry a gun on Belvaille—except me.

We arrived at the stadium in eight separate armored cars. We had something like twenty decoy vehicles and I don’t know how many misdirections and checkpoints and blackouts. The only way we wouldn’t have gotten to the stadium is if a neutron star had turned into a giant bottle of beer, popped its cap, and the cap smashed into Belvaille.

There was a lot of high drama surrounding the weigh in. It was carried out beneath the stadium near the team locker rooms.

Each player was taken out one at a time. Their name, stats, history, details, and just about everything except their DNA and stool samples were displayed on the broadcast.

As the second-place team, we had to go first. The weighing was all televised to the crowd above us. We couldn’t see the Reskin Sleepers’ team, as they were hidden from view to increase the suspense.

Even deep within the stadium underbelly we could hear the roar of the crowd. You could probably hear it across space—physics be damned. Rendrae and Oxobox said this was the most-watched Championship in history.

Whatever. I just wanted this done and over so I could go back to being a Factotum. I decided that getting shot at now and then was a lot safer than playing glocken.

Ziggy went up and the crowd went nuts. He was always really popular. He was cute and he scored a lot and he never said anything to offend anyone because he didn’t have a mouth. It amazed me that he only weighed 98 pounds. Anything that small playing Super Class glocken and being our top scorer was a true anomaly.

Garm got a respectable ovation. Lots of hooting and whistles. She weighed 123.

Neddy didn’t get much applause. He was a weird alien bug thing. It didn’t matter that he was our second-best scorer and a monster on defense. He weighed 265.

Candar had been switched to 4-lane and his reception was thunderous. I literally looked at the walls to see if we were in danger of being buried. He weighed 500 pounds exactly. He always weighed 500 pounds. He was the only person who never fluctuated. He took it very seriously.

Frank didn’t get any applause because no one knew him. He weighed 633.

Bley-ore got a good response. He was a fun player to watch. Hard-hitting, tough. He was 989 pounds.

My turn came up and I didn’t hear much. I actually paused on my way to the scales, craning my head for the applause. All I heard was booing.

“Don’t worry about it, Hank,” Candar reassured me, like a prick.

I hopped on the scales and I was 3,446. I had somehow gained about 200 pounds.

“Damn, Hank, did you eat your token?” Garm asked, as I stepped off.

“Hey, don’t worry. We’re a team,” Candar said again.

Grah weighed 15,233 pounds. He had weighed differently on previous games, but I chalked that up to the scales being calibrated differently. Even if they were only off a quarter of a percent, that would really register with someone as heavy as Grah.

Maybe that’s why I was heavier?

Our defensive substitutes came up but no one really cared about them. Even though Meggaar, who replaced Garm on defense, was part of the Band of Hands and stopped most 2-lanes cold.



It was time for the Reskin Sleepers to be weighed. They walked around the corner one at a time as their lane was called.

The 1-lane came into view and it was the trippendage I had fought on Floloria! I couldn’t believe it was a 1-lane. Usually you wanted your smallest, fastest guy there since it was only carrying a 1-pound token.

The trippendage got on the scales and it said 90 pounds!

Impossible.

We all stared at each other. Unless that thing was filled with helium, there was no way it was 90 pounds. And I had fought it, it was more likely to be filled with iron than helium.

Their 2-lane came up and it was some eight-foot-tall monster that was so over-muscled he had to swivel his whole body to walk. His arms stood straight out like a T because he had so many muscles. Even his face was bulging.

He weighed 150 pounds!

This was getting absurd.

Magda was nearby and we began to complain to her, but she shushed us. She was no dummy though, her normally mean face was so scrunched up that she looked freeze-dried.

Their 3-lane was a Qwintine like our 3-lane Neddy, but this one must have been a different subspecies because it was about three times as wide, twice as tall, and its abdomen had glowing spots as if it was powered by a furnace.

Their 4-lane, who Candar would be playing against, was a Colmarian who reminded me of Podiver Vance. He was outrageously tall and thin and his arms dragged like long noodles behind him. His legs were also flimsy and he rolled to create locomotion. It didn’t look like he had any bones in his body.

The next player would be taking on Frank. At first I thought it was a Keilvin Kamigan coming around the corner because it was a cloud of light. But in the center, a bipedal being floated along, surrounded by a gleaming halo. The person itself was an iridescent gold.

“Hey, no robots,” I said.

But the judges had already scanned him and determined he was some kind of biological species or he wouldn’t have been allowed this far.

The weigh in room judges weren’t the actual referees. The judges just did things like check weight and equipment and made sure we weren’t Dredel Led. They also performed a very forgiving intelligence check to show we were at least sentient and self-aware.

The head-check was so we weren’t fighting animals. But Grah could pass it, Ziggy could pass it, and even I could pass it, so I had no doubt that the Reskin Sleepers would pass.

The 6-lane, who would go head-to-head with Bley-ore was maybe the strangest one yet. It looked like a five-foot-tall statue made of metal. But it was very rough, like silvered coal, and had lines and cracks and rough edges everywhere. The most bizarre aspect, however, was how it moved. It never lifted its feet off the ground. Instead, it would stretch out its arms and completely collapse into a mound of debris. Then it would rise up, reform itself, stretch out its arms again, and fall forward. It could do this quite rapidly. I had no idea how Bley-ore would fare against that.

They all weighed comfortably under what common sense said they should weigh.

I was waiting for their 7- and 8-lanes, though. That would be who was blocking me and who I was blocking, respectively.

We kept standing around for their 7-lane but no one came. Suddenly the scale jumped up to 2,500 pounds.

“What the hell, is he invisible?” I asked.

One of the assistant coaches from the Reskin Sleepers went over to the judges and began talking. It was not hard to notice that the coach was a Rettosian. After some time, one of the judges left and returned some ten minutes later.

The scale was still sitting at 2,500 pounds.

The judge approached with some device in his hand. He squatted down and put his nose like a foot above the scale. He waved for one of the cameras to come over. Everyone on our team went to one of the tele screens to see what the camera was looking at.

There he was. It was a tiny little 7-lane. He must have been a millimeter tall. Or across. Or something. The judge had a magnifying glass, but you still couldn’t see exactly what the player looked like.

How was that guy going to block me? Other than the fact he weighed 2,500 pounds, which probably meant he really weighed about 10,000.

Yeah, mutants weren’t against the rules, but come on. I was just fat. I wasn’t the size of a molecule.

I was so worried I had forgotten there was still an 8-lane.

A giant claw appeared from the other side of the room. Its nails dug into the concrete wall. Another clawed hand appeared and wrapped itself around the door frame. Using these vantage points, the leviathan pulled itself bodily into the room.

It then “stood” up.

Grah was ten feet tall and could easily fit inside. This thing had to crouch down and splay its arms wide.

Its lower body was composed of giant tentacles with suction cups. Its upper body was muscular and twin-armed with a somewhat lizard-like appearance. Its mouth was enormous and filled with polished white fangs bigger than my damn skull.

It had six black eyes, a giant red tongue, and looked beyond malevolent.

It then roared, in case anyone hadn’t quite pissed their pants yet.

It was impossible to tell how tall it was, because its tentacles were all across the chamber and stretched back into the room it had come from. Just its upper body must be at least fifteen feet.

These Super Class judges, who had seen a galaxy full of oddities and drugged-out monsters, retreated in fear from this new contender.

My heart skipped at least five beats, which couldn’t be good for me.

It took over thirty minutes to weigh the creature and everyone else had to leave the room to make space. In the end they added its weight across three different scales.

6,100 pounds…

“Now they’re just being insulting,” I said to Magda. “What is that thing made out of, sunshine and rainbows? If that’s 6,100 pounds, then I can touch my toes while jump roping. I’m not going to try and block that!”

“Relax, Magda has it,” Candar said. Though even he looked nervous.

Magda raised a formal complaint and demanded we all be reweighed.

There were lots of boos and anger from the fans, but the judges also had to know something was up.

They had some back-up scales and we all weighed ourselves again. We came out pretty much the same.

The Reskin Sleepers came out pretty much the same as well.

“Can we forfeit now?” I asked seriously.





CHAPTER 62




We won the coin toss so we were first offense.

I never heard such deafening applause before and I was blinded by the amount of lights. It was pretty amazing, and even Magda seemed, momentarily, impressed.

As we lined up against our opponents, things appeared dangerously futile.

Every one of us was much smaller than our counterparts. Except me, because I was playing against some microscopic defender.

I couldn’t help but look over at the 8-lane who stood there roaring and gnashing and clawing at the air. It took up the whole 8-lane, most of the 7-lane, and its tentacles extended back half the field. I was going to have to try and block that thing next possession.

Candar was calling out plays, but I already decided I was going to sit back and go where I could provide help. I couldn’t run with a 1,000-pound token anyway. Besides, I had missed so much practice I had no idea what plays he was calling.

The game began and I dropped my token and moved behind the line.

I saw the trippendage at 1-lane smash his huge fist down and I worried about poor Ziggy. Then I noticed Ziggy had scored. He was about that fast.

Garm wasn’t stupid, she wasn’t going to try and fight her muscled defender. But she didn’t have to. The guy was hopelessly incapable of catching her, as immobile as he was.

She added insult by running straight at him, jumping onto his chest, climbing his muscles like the rungs on a ladder, hurdling over him, and practically dancing her way into the end zone.

The crowd laughed their approval. They loved her.

We were up three points already!

Neddy ran thorax-to-thorax against the other insect and I couldn’t tell if they were mating or scrumming. But Neddy was clearly out-weighed. The only good thing was their insect had short arms and legs compared to its massive body. If Neddy would just try and go around, he might make some headway. But Neddy was not that subtle.

Candar jumped back and hurled his token down field. He then tried to run past the long-limbed defender but was stopped. That guy could probably block the adjacent two lanes without difficulty. He literally wrapped himself around Candar like an overzealous scarf.

Frank. Well, Frank was Frank. My uncle saw weigh-in and knew what was up. He also must have been paid in advance. He dropped his token, rushed forward against his golden, floating opponent, and took hold of one of the man’s arms. Bracing his feet against the gleaming foe and pulling him down to the turf, Frank completely ripped the man’s arm off! He then took the arm and began beating the dying mutant with it.

Frank was ejected from the game and we were penalized twenty points.

He didn’t care, and he had the wisdom to get the hell out of here. He probably fled the entire System.

Bley-ore held his token firm and rushed against his mineral defender. The creature exploded into tiny debris. But then as Bley-ore tried to continue running, he found his feet were being grasped and held firm by the rubble that was once his blocker.

The rubble grew, reformed, and entwined himself around Bley-ore. Bley-ore chopped and punched and kicked and he was slowly—very slowly—moving down the field. But the other defenders were moving over to assist.

I was about to go help Bley-ore when I saw Grah, 15,000-pound Grah, go running past me with the 8-lane token. That was twenty-two points if he scored!

The behemoth who was defending 8-lane had gotten distracted—by the crowd. It rushed over to the stadium and was now climbing the wall that separated the field from the stands. I watched it grab about a half-dozen people and stuff them into its mouth! It didn’t even seem tremendously hungry, it just chewed a bit and let the chopped-up remains drop to the ground.

The 19,994 people who weren’t being eaten were screaming in terror. I, myself, stood frozen, realizing that monster would soon be coming for me.

The referees signaled for security to step in and they were blasting the leviathan with force cannons and trying to secure it with cables and nets. It was like ants trying to attack a meteor, armed only with happiness.

Eventually the assistant coaches of the Sleepers had to run out and try and coerce the thing back onto the field.

I looked over at the Reskin Sleepers sideline and there I saw Irune, Thad Elon. He was sitting as emotionless as ever, watching the game behind his dark sunglasses with his darker eyeballs.

This finally spurred me to action and I rushed forward to try and help Bley-ore.

Just then I was hit in my stomach with what felt like an extremely powerful bullet and knocked onto my back. I was winded and blinking and trying to figure out what the crap just happened.

I tried to get up when I felt a tremendous weight on my chest.

It was that damn microscopic defender. It had to be.

I tilted my head up to see if I could spot him, but my eyes were blurry and there were so many flashing, colored lights I couldn’t even see my feet—not that I could normally see my feet.

I brushed at my chest to try and get him off but I still felt the weight there.

Technically, because I wasn’t holding a token, this flea shouldn’t be standing on me. He could block but he couldn’t just set up shop on my sternum.

“Unnecessary…torso-sitting,” I called.

But as the team’s Hack, I didn’t get a lot of respect from the referees. They figured it was all fair game since I didn’t play fair.

Besides, I just looked like a fat guy who fell on his back and couldn’t get up. It’s not like it was obvious there was a tiny black hole of a man pinning me down.

Bley-ore was brought down by the trippendage and the lead-coal creature and the hyper-muscled 2-lane all working together.

Grah scored easily as no one even attempted to stop him.

Once Candar’s token had been killed, the long-armed defender reached over and killed my token from what seemed like thirty feet away. Candar tried to stop him, but he was still entangled in the man’s legs.

Neddy was declared down and his token dead when he simply couldn’t make any headway against his counterpart.

When all the tokens were similarly dead or scored, my diminutive oppressor finally hopped off my chest.

When we got to the sidelines, Magda hit me in the nose with her metal rod and berated me for not helping.

“What were you doing, Hank, playing dead?” Candar yelled.

“That little guy was jumping on me,” I complained. “I think he bit me,” I lied, when no one seemed to appreciate my predicament.

Even with Frank’s penalty, we had five points.

But with Frank’s ejection, we were down a player. However, he had murdered their 5-lane, so they were also down a player. Amazingly, they didn’t have any substitutes. They probably figured they didn’t need any.

It seemed we might actually have a chance yet.

We discussed what we would do on defense but I didn’t pay much attention. No amount of strategy was going to prepare me for trying to stop their 8-lane. I could try and get stuck to its suction cups, but there was no conventional way I could try and block that thing.

We lined up and it took a long time to get started because the Reskin Sleepers wouldn’t pick up their tokens. The 8-lane was busy screaming and thrashing. The miniature 7-lane may or may not have picked up the token, it was difficult to see if it was raised a half-millimeter or not.

Finally, the crowd was getting very unruly and the referees simply started the play.

The leviathan howled and lurched forward and grabbed hold of me. It picked me up in one of its claws and I felt sure it was going to eat me.

Instead it threw me.

I flew up into the D24 section of the stadium. Not exactly the cheap seats, but I got a lot of beer and chips spilled on me instead of wine and fish eggs.

People began cussing, spitting on me, hitting me, and throwing food. As if it were my fault I had broken the bones of the four people I landed on.

It was a long way back to the field and I felt the play would likely be over before I got there, so I picked up the food that was being thrown and started eating. It wasn’t bad food. The stadium had a pretty good concessions area, and this was the Championship.

One guy shot me with a pistol. Not sure how he managed to bring a gun in here. I ignored him.

This made people even madder and they threw a lot more food, which I ate.

Grah killed the 7-lane token with no problem. The little flea might have been contesting the token, but there was no way to tell. He even killed the 8-lane token, which the leviathan hadn’t bothered to pick up.

But then the creature grabbed Grah with both of its massive claws and hurled him! It was unbelievable. 15,000 pounds thrown like a ball.

Grah didn’t come close to reaching the stands, but he did manage to crush one of our towel boys and a photographer.

From my high vantage point it was pretty clear these over-mutated beasts had very little concept or interest in the sport of glocken. They would forget to pick up the tokens, would drop them, would throw them randomly, would run out of bounds and try and attack people on the sidelines.

We would actually be completely dominating them if strategy was the key factor of this game. As it was, half their team could probably go to sleep or, more likely, go on some killing spree across Belvaille and they would still beat us easily.

Because if there was one thing they understood, it was that they could still win by permanently disabling us.

Ziggy got flattened trying to block the trippendage.

Bley-ore seemed to be suffocating because he had his head completely enveloped by the debris creature.

Candar was being strangled by the spaghetti-armed man, despite a foul being called.

The rock-solid Neddy took a beating from his Qwintine adversary. Neddy’s single-mindedness was going to get him killed.

Meggaar, Garm’s defensive replacement, was no match for the hyper-muscular mutant. The 2-lane took a page out of Frank’s book and ripped off one of Meggaar’s four arms. Meggaar fell to the ground, bleeding copiously.

I thought the play would be over quickly, but it was clear that the Reskin Sleepers had no intention of ending their offense. We weren’t able to kill the tokens and they weren’t interested in scoring. They were trying to annihilate us.

I made my way back down to the field as quickly as I could, which wasn’t very quickly.

I jumped from the upper platform and landed on a lot of annoyed spectators who had been cursing at me below. Serves them right.

From there, I jumped down to the field and jogged across the sideline.

Thad Elon was sitting right there and he spared me a small grin and nod of his head.

I wasn’t sure what to do, but Magda yelled instructions: grab the tokens and throw them all out of bounds as quick as possible before our team got slaughtered.

I did so with the small tokens, grabbing three at a time. The 7- and 8-lane tokens were too big to throw so I had to hold them for five seconds.

When the play was officially over, half our team was down and in a few cases, down for good. Meggaar was short an arm, Ziggy was limp, Bley-ore had nearly been suffocated to death and the team medics were trying to restore him.

Things were catastrophically bad and we were only two plays into the game.





CHAPTER 63




It was pretty hopeless.

We were granted an extended timeout to count our dead and dying. We were in our locker room which currently resembled a hospital in a war zone.

Ziggy was busted up pretty bad and it broke my heart to see the spastic guy so lethargic. Meggaar was in shock from his injuries. Neddy had several cracks in his exoskeleton. Candar said he was fine but he was wearing a neck brace and had somehow suffered a concussion. Bley-ore was in a coma. Even Grah, who was a damn rock, seemed to be moving slower than usual—which was saying something.

Only Garm and I were unscathed, and in my case it was only because I had the good fortune of landing on a bunch of people with bad fortune.

“We have to quit,” I said.

“I thought that would doom the economy,” Cliston replied.

“Money isn’t everything,” I said, having successfully transformed most of my money into a spaceship.

“They’re hardly calling any penalties,” Candar wheezed.

“This is the most crooked Championship I’ve ever witnessed. But that doesn’t help us now,” Magda said.

I went to Delovoa’s office to try and get some more of that formula cream. I’d slather it all over myself to help me heal. And I’d eat some while I was at it.

“Good work on the Portals,” Delovoa said.

I couldn’t get over his new body. He wore tight-fitting clothes to show off his physique, but they also showed off his stitches and gunk that was seeping out. His tight pants looked obscene.

“What Portals?” I asked, wondering if I had a concussion too.

“The three Portals are back online. I just checked and I have full access. Everything looks in order. What did you do?”

“I didn’t do anything. Remember, the ship got smashed? I haven’t been back in space since,” I said.

“Well, they’re working,” Delovoa shrugged, and when he did so some kind of boil or cyst ruptured on his shoulder and saturated his shirt with blood.

“Portals don’t fix themselves do they?” I asked.

“If they did, I would be out of a job,” Delovoa replied, as he continued to rub the formula cream on me.

“That’s how he’s going to mutate us!”

“Naked Guy?”

“Yes. Thad Elon. Could he use the Portals as some kind of, I don’t know, mutant-making thing?” I asked.

“I don’t see how,” Delovoa said.

I sighed, not sure what to think.

“Of course, I’m not billions of years old and a folk legend known across the galaxy by every species,” Delovoa amended. “I’m not sure what he could do.”

“Did any of your co-workers fix them?” I asked.

“No. Those Portals are assigned to you by the Arch Minister. The Central Authority wouldn’t let anyone go near them,” he said.

“Then that’s got to be it!” I shouted.

Delovoa looked around anxiously.

“Look, it’s a miracle you’re still alive. All those players are clearly mutants and clearly high-level mutants. The economy is about to go down the toilet and, according to you, we’re all about to get mutated—again. You said you got a spaceship, let’s get out of here while we still can. Your uncle ran out of here so fast I thought it was Ziggles at first,” Delovoa said.

“Ziggy,” I corrected.

It was a good idea. And if I was being completely honest, I bought my spaceship partially with this in mind. I didn’t believe Thad Elon was making idle threats and I knew there was no hope of beating the Reskin Sleepers.

But now I knew where the mutation was coming from. Or likely to come from.

And when I hadn’t succeeded in stopping Thad Elon before, the galaxy had been plunged into civil war. And we still hadn’t recovered from that.

“Are you guys planning on leaving?” Garm said, entering the room. “Because count me in.”

“Hank thinks Naked Guy is going to use the Portals to mutate us,” Delovoa said.

“What the hell’s in your pants?” Garm asked.

Delovoa pulled down his pants to show her and Garm looked sick.

“It’s got gangrene!” She yelled.

“It’s not polite to point. And I’ll have you know it’s healing nicely,” he said.

“So what’s your plan, Hank? Go out there and run one or two more plays until we’re all dead?” Garm asked.

“What was it you said?” I asked her.

“About you being stupid or fat?” Garm replied.

“No, about winning the Championship,” I said.

“That we can’t?”

“No, about…I can’t remember. I have an old brain. Um, you had…” I looked at my two friends for help. “It was something about the Championship and winning.”

“I asked if it was okay if we didn’t win. Does the universe end if the Reskin Sleepers win or if we lose?” she asked.

“Yeah! All we have to do is stop them from winning,” I said.

“You make it sound easy,” Garm replied.

“It is. But that’s not good enough. We’re still going to get mutated. We’re still going to have Thad Elon hanging around. Even if we fix one of those, we’re screwed somewhere else.”

“You’re going to win the game, fix the Portals, and kill the immortal Naked Guy?” Delovoa asked.

“We’re going to need the whole team,” I said. “What’s left of it.”





CHAPTER 64




“This seems like a horrible plan,” Candar said.

The remaining team members were all together in the locker room listening to me explain my proposed strategy. Grah, Neddy, and Candar all seemed to be very uninterested. I admit, what I was saying had to sound like lunacy.

“For once, Hank isn’t exaggerating. Irune is really Thad Elon,” Garm said.

“If that’s the case, shouldn’t we be running the other direction from him? Or even celebrating his existence?” Candar asked.

“He’s not a benevolent deity. I can’t stress that enough. He started the civil war, which killed countless billions of people, and he means to do a lot worse,” I said.

“If the Reskin Sleepers aren’t stopped, you will face economic hardships no matter where you run,” Cliston said.

“That’s right. All your hard work as glocken players, all that money you made in exchange for broken bones and brain loss, won’t be worth spit,” I added.

“He’s telling the truth as far as I understand it,” Magda confirmed uneasily.

Magda’s endorsement seemed to get their interest a lot more than any of the other stuff I had said.

“If he’s really Thad Elon, we won’t have a chance against him,” Candar argued. “I’ve been going to Thad Elon’s Day celebrations for as long as I can remember and you’re telling me he’s sitting out there in the flesh.”

“Believe it or not, he’s the least of our worries. If I know him, and I do somewhat, he won’t try and stop us. He’ll probably be amused,” I said.

“We’ll be fugitives,” Candar exclaimed.

I was beginning to get annoyed at Candar’s intransigence. This must be what he felt like trying to get me to go to practice all season.

“I’m doing the dirty work. I’m used to people being mad at me,” I said.

“It’s true, no one has ever really liked Hank,” Garm said.

I was about to argue, but then I realized it didn’t matter. I could see everyone was still on the fence. My plan wasn’t very good but I didn’t have a lot of time to devise it.

“Look, I’ve done this a lot. Save the neighborhood. Or city. Or galaxy. I’ve done it like twenty times and no one ever thanks me or gives me free food or tips their hat. The only thing you get is the secret knowledge that you helped billions, or trillions, or even zillions—”

“Quadrillions?” Candar asked.

“Shut up. Of people, and the satisfaction of helping your team not lose,” I said.

“By cheating. Cheating to the greatest degree possible,” Candar said, distraught.

“Don’t tell me you think those Reskin Players out there aren’t cheating. I’m surprised this stadium can even support their weight. We’re the second-ranked team in all of Super Class and in two plays they managed to disable half of us. Do you really want to try and play them for five more hours? I sure don’t,” I said.

The team still didn’t look very enthusiastic.

“Look, if we don’t do this, no one will. There is no third-place team behind us. There are no substitutes or defenders ready to step in if we bail. We are the only people who know about this and can do anything. If we don’t even try, you’ll have to live with that for the rest of your lives. And trust me, the level of regret for trying your best and failing is way less than for not trying at all.”

“Let us go!” Grah yelled, seeming to settle things for everyone.



Magda filed a formal complaint. The biggest, boldest complaint you could possibly file: she said the referees were helping the Reskin Sleepers cheat.

It was one thing to complain about refs behind their backs or in the media or even on the field. But a formal complaint was a big deal. She had to present her findings, have all the referees confer, and then they would pass judgment.

In the history of Super Class, this had only been done a few dozen times and only when it was overwhelmingly obvious or the game had effectively been lost. If the referees disagreed with the protest, which happened almost every time, they could penalize our team in any way they saw fit for the false accusation.

The penalty could be instant forfeiture, or a hundred points, or suspension of players.

Absolutely anything.

And when you accuse referees of being crooks, they aren’t often lenient afterwards.

Magda and Cliston met in a room with Irune and one of the Rettosian assistant coaches.

Behind a clear plexi-screen, the referees all assembled. Two Line Referees, two End Referees, and the Chief Referee who had final say.

It was not completely unheard of for spectators to throw things, shoot things, and otherwise try and maim or kill referees, so when they arrived, they were still wearing their bulky armored gear and looked like they were going to invade a planet—and force its inhabitants to play glocken.

Several cameramen were also present, filming for the broadcast. Despite the interruption in play, this was seen as pretty high entertainment because it was so rare.

Magda was expected to make her case, the Reskin Sleepers could refute it, if they chose, and the referees would evaluate.

“This Court of Grand Inquiry is now in session. You have stated that you have proof of deceptive practices by the officiating staff,” the Chief Referee stated solemnly.

“I do,” Magda replied.

She began to sift through her tele with Cliston’s help.

Irune sat motionless, seemingly uninterested. His Rettosian assistant was clearly annoyed, however.

At this point, I walked into the room and stepped past everyone.

I didn’t care for referees in general. It was easy to not like someone when they had the power to save you from beatings and rarely did. Of course, my dislike for them was irrelevant. I couldn’t allow the Reskin Sleepers to win.

“I claim sole responsibility,” I said. “Eat suck, suckface!”

I stood there holding Gun in my hand and nothing happened.

The referees all exchanged looks.

I cleared my throat.

“Gun?” I asked.

“Yes? Hello,” he replied, oblivious.

“Kill them all,” I clarified.

I had seen Gun shoot through the observation screen on the spaceship that had smashed Zzzho’s taxi. I didn’t think he would have an issue with the plexi-screen.

He didn’t. The referee armor was a bit trickier, however.

After shattering the screen, he shot the two Line Refs in their external optical camera lenses. This was a straight connection to their eyeballs, and both men dropped. The End Refs had seams in their chest armor where the plates joined together. But the seams were connected by big bolts, which could be shot, and shattered, leaving the armor plates to fall to the ground, exposing their bodies.

The two End Refs dropped to the ground.

“Stop! You’re in violation—” the Chief began in his booming voice.

His booming voice was created with an amplifier located over his throat. Unarmored, apparently. Gun shot him there and the Chief fell to the ground dead.

The two cameramen were also killed. I hadn’t wanted that, but I hadn’t told Gun not to, so he took me at my word when I said “Kill them all.”

The Rettosian assistant coach stood and, to my shock, he didn’t run away. He was incredibly angry.

“Where did you get that weapon?” he demanded.

It was the least likely response I would have thought of.

I walked forward so I was safely past Cliston and Magda and told Gun to kill the man standing.

Gun did so with a single shot to the skull.

Despite their armor, these were all squishy little men. I felt a bit tired, but not that much. It was hard to distinguish what was Gun siphoning my energy and what had been caused by being tossed up into the stands. But my adrenaline was counteracting it nicely.

I’m not sure how Gun knew exactly where to shoot when he seemed to know so little about everything else. I would ask him when I had a little more time on my hands and I wasn’t surrounded by tens of thousands of people who had just started to riot because the Championship game was now cancelled.

On account that all the referees had been murdered.





CHAPTER 65




A huge explosion rocked the entire stadium.

It was then the reality of what I had done truly hit me. I had just ruined the weekends of the entire galaxy’s sports fans. Did I really expect to get away with it?

But I had to.

The Championship was cancelled for today. But the Reskin Sleepers would just play the third-place team tomorrow. Or next week. Or next month. Eventually they would win and the Ank’s great Formula would collapse.

I had to get Thad Elon out of here. I felt with him gone, their team would crumble.

I hoped.

And we just might get him to tell us how to stop the mutations.

Zzzho was already waiting in my ship at the port, I just had to go across a rather inhospitable city to get there.

Garm and Delovoa had left before I started shooting and I would need them at the Portals.

Cliston was leaving with Magda, doing their best to disguise themselves.

I had Thad Elon by the scruff of his neck and was dragging him around the locker room. He seemed to find this whole escapade somewhat comical.

Bley-ore and Candar walked in as I was binding him.

“Bley-ore,” I said, surprised. “You okay?”

“I told him everything, and he’s ready to help,” Candar replied.

Bley-ore was exactly what I needed, but…

“Weren’t you just in a coma?” I asked.

“I’m on so many drugs I think if they pulled my brain out I would still be ready to play,” he said.

“Don’t give them any ideas, it just might come to that,” I replied.

As far as I knew, the security in the building was supposed to protect the players and staff. I wasn’t sure how they would react to me killing the refs.

I had squeezed Thad Elon into a big, sturdy sports bag. It was designed to carry tokens, but it now contained a tied-up Creator God.

Candar looked at it uncertainly.

“Is he going to be alright in there?” he asked.

I took a step back and kicked the bag as hard as I could. It flew across the room and smashed into some lockers and bent three of them.

“You okay, Thad Elon?” I called out.

“I just wish I could see what you were doing. It seems quite original,” he replied mildly.

If the guys hadn’t been nervous before, they were now.

Grah was leading us out. He would be the front Wedge. He was the widest and strongest, though we would be limited to moving at his speed.

Bley-ore and Neddy would be roving Hacks, keeping everyone away or making them wish they had stayed away.

Candar was the Forward. If I got in trouble, I would twist the bag to him and he’d go running to my ship, carrying Thad Elon like a token.

I was the Tilt. The Captain. The chump. Everyone would be gunning for me.

We had to run all the way across an angry city to the port, carrying a god in a duffle bag.

None of the players were complaining because I think they realized this was a lot easier than playing the Reskin Sleepers.

Also, they were in Game Mode.

It is hard to describe the level of concentration possessed by professional athletes. It’s almost a transcendent state. The Play had been called, and now they were working off instinct and muscle memory. It was almost as if they were no longer conscious beings.

We were jogging down the hallways under the stadium at Grah-speed and all the guards pretty much stayed out of the way. They were not trained on how to respond to this. A few held their guns, testing if that was the correct reaction, but then Bley-ore or Neddy would pound them into the ground.

The rest decided that wasn’t the correct reaction and merely watched us go.

We were about to reach the exit when Candar yelled from ahead.

“Central Authority!” He said.

“Keep going,” I answered.

“Hank, stop!” MTB’s familiar voice called.

I thought about it a moment and modified our play.

“Beggar Down!” I said, happy that I remembered the maneuver.

“Beggar Back, you mean,” Candar corrected.

That guy…

MTB was with two C.A. who were armed, but not impressively so. I didn’t think he could stop us. Besides, he was the co-signer on my new spaceship. He wouldn’t shoot me. Would he?

“Hank. Where you going?” MTB asked.

“What’s it to you?” I said stupidly. It was all kinds of things to him as a C.A. Inspector.

“You got a few million people on this city ready to tear your face off and make you eat it,” he replied.

“Does that include the C.A.?” I asked warily.

“Did you hear that bomb?” he asked.

“Yeah, how could I not? What was it?”

“That was the stadium’s presidential box getting blown to confetti,” he said.

“So a bunch of rich nobles are dead?” I asked impatiently.

“Yeah. And the Arch Minister. Maris-To was watching the game,” he said.

“What?” I asked, shocked.

“The C.A. isn’t after you because there is no Central Authority as of ten minutes ago. There’s no government at all,” he said.

“Are you sure he’s dead?” I asked.

“I was stationed two sections over. I’m lucky I wasn’t more popular with my superiors or I might have been killed, too.”

I’d had no contact with Maris-To in years, so I was surprised how relieved I was to learn that he was dead. It wasn’t just that I ratted him out to the Historians and I hadn’t repaired the Portals like he asked. Maris-To had essentially been a king.

You could never be completely at ease knowing he was around and could order your execution for no other reason except he felt like it.

“What about space? Will the warships fire on me?” I asked.

“Can’t see why. They won’t know it’s you unless you tell them. And they won’t care unless they had money riding on the game or something,” he said. “So you did all that to stop Naked Guy?”

“Yeah. Got him in this bag,” I said, patting it.

MTB blinked.

“And you’re going to your ship?”

“Trying to.”

“We can help if you want. But you got to give us a lift out of here if we make it. I don’t know how well C.A. are going to be treated in the next few days,” he said.

“Can you tell the other C.A. to back off?” I asked.

“There is no C.A. These guys are just my pals,” he said.

“Hi,” I said, waving.

But they didn’t look like the chatty type. If they were MTB’s friends, they were strictly business.

“Sure, the more the merrier. You guys cover the rear and shoot anyone who looks dangerous,” I said.

“We’re unarmed,” MTB said.

“What is that you’re holding?” I asked, annoyed.

“We have no ammunition. They said it was because they didn’t want any overzealous policing, but they really wanted us unarmed when they assassinated Maris-To. None of the C.A. are armed,” MTB said.

“Who killed him?” I asked.

“Someone with high-level access to the Central Authority, that’s all I know. His box was swept clear at least a half-dozen times and every entrance was locked and guarded. My first hunch is the Quadrad.”

“No, they wouldn’t kill Maris-To. Like you said, that’s the whole government. They don’t get any business from anarchy. And Garm would at least give me a warning if something that big was going down. But no ammo, huh? Well…then just shake your guns around and threaten anyone who comes close,” I suggested.

“And we’re going to run across the whole city?” MTB asked.

“Hopefully,” I said.

“This seems like a bad plan,” MTB added.

“I told him so,” Candar agreed.





CHAPTER 66




I had made a real long-shot request to Garm before she took off. I knew she wouldn’t be much help when we tried to muscle our way across town—she was a finesse player not a blocker—but she was still a member of the Quadrad, and they were still an elite organization of assassins.

When we got out onto the street using one of the emergency exits, the lights on the whole block went dark.

That was the Quadrad.

With just like fifteen minutes’ notice, they managed to cut the power to a major street.

There were all kinds of redundancies in the utilities. Especially with the Championship on. I would have thought it would take multiple nuclear strikes to turn off the lights, but apparently all you needed was a few feisty women.

Garm always made it seem like she was some minor cog in the Quadrad organization, but every once in a while she pulled off something like this. I didn’t even have to pay them.



Belvaille was a rich city. Beyond rich.

The citizens here wouldn’t riot just because of a stupid glocken game. Even the Championship. They were nobles and the servants of nobles. They had too much to lose.

No one knew that Maris-To was dead, either. We had been hundreds of feet away from it and only knew because MTB told us. I didn’t fear anything from the vast majority of Belvaille.

Even the people in the stands wouldn’t riot. I’m not sure how much a seat in the stadium cost, but I had to imagine it was hundreds of thousands of credits just to be up so high your head was touching the latticework. Those people were certainly disappointed, but if they could afford to be there, they could afford to go back to their wealthy lives.

But there were lots of visitors.

There were people who had burned their entire life savings getting t-shirts made—everything from extra-extra-extra-extra small to Gandrine-sized. There were people who had to bid on jobs as garbage handlers or porters or dishwashers. Those people now wouldn’t be getting paid. Those people had lost their money, their time, and their dreams of a big payday.

They would riot.

They were out already, tearing off their waiter’s uniforms, and bus driver’s liveries, throwing their worthless merchandise into the streets.

We had a few things going for us as we made our way to the port, however.

The Quadrad were blacking out each road as soon as we hit it. I didn’t know how and I didn’t care. None of the angry people rioting likely suspected that the cause of their frustrations were twenty feet away from them, hustling down the dark boulevard, carrying a tote bag with Thad Elon inside.

And the people that did see us were much more likely to throw insults than body blocks. Because as mad as they were, as destitute as they had become, it was clear that jumping in front of Grah or Bley-ore or Neddy wasn’t going to solve their problems and would instead add a whole new element of pain.

I liked to think I had gotten in shape since I began one of the most strenuous professional sports in the galaxy.

But I was slower and had less stamina now than before I started. I’m not sure if it was because of my compounding injuries, my mysterious weight gain—which I still blamed on the misaligned scales—or the fact my body just didn’t lend itself to being in excellent condition.

In any case, I had to keep asking the guys to slow down and wait. Even Grah, which was embarrassing considering he was a gigantic slag heap.

I was glad Magda wasn’t here to yell at me.



My exhaustion notwithstanding, I was beginning to think this would be an uneventful trip across town. Like no one would care we had just murdered a half-dozen referees in the biggest sporting event of the year.

It was then that the angry shouting really began in earnest and gunfire started to pop up all around us.

It only took a few people with better-than-average night vision to get on their teles to spread the word where we were and what we were doing. There were an awful lot of guns on Belvaille and there were plenty of people who didn’t care about consequences. They could stand well away from the mighty arms of Grah and take potshots at us.

This went on for about ten blocks while the amount of yelling and shooting grew substantially.

I knew Candar, Neddy, and Bley-ore weren’t bulletproof. Grah, as I knew from other Gandrine, could resist anything short of artillery, so he was fine. And of course Thad Elon would outlive us all.

I was about to tell MTB and his Central Authority buddies they might want to get lost when I looked back and saw they had already split.

Bley-ore got shot and he ran off to the side to go massacre the shooter and anyone who got in his way.

I was really puffing hard and not moving fast at all.

Then I heard a roar and there must have been a mob of hundreds of people who came barreling out of an adjoining street. They surged around Neddy like he wasn’t there.

“Blue 202!” I yelled.

I had no idea if that was the name of a play. It probably was, since we had approximately two million bajillion plays, of which I knew about five. However, I didn’t think one of our standard plays encompassed throwing an immortal opposing coach on a darkened street. But I didn’t want to yell out Candar’s name in case no one had seen him yet and I certainly didn’t want to explicitly state, “Hey, I’m throwing you Thad Elon.”

I stopped, planted my feet, and did the best twist I could.

I got lucky and the bag flew relatively straight and high over Grah, who I was worried about hitting.

Turning to the side, I prepared to face the crowd and I was honestly concerned. I couldn’t fight that many people. I had Gun, but I was drained as it was and if he sapped me further, I might pass out in front of a bloodthirsty mob.

But the oddest thing happened.

When I threw the bag, everyone stopped rushing at me, and ran after the bag!

It was like we were playing glocken and I no longer had the token.

As they changed directions, I wondered if they were somehow working for Irune or knew it was him, but they looked like your average rioters. Nothing special, just frothing mad.

Grah turned around, knelt down, and stretched out his arms. This was enough to obstruct half the street and make the mob a little less ferocious.

I don’t think it was because they were scared of Grah. I think they were in awe. Also, scared or awed or confused, a mob isn’t really good at suddenly backing up and going around an obstacle. They were fifteen people deep and trying to push through an impassible roadblock.

I tried to catch up to Candar by going around the sidewalk. I couldn’t have thrown Thad Elon very far and Candar couldn’t run with him too quickly. Candar normally handled a hundred-pound token, but I had to guess Thad Elon was closer to 200 and quite a bit bulkier.

I probably should have let Grah carry Irune to begin with. What was anyone going to do to him? I wasn’t thinking, and let my ego get in the way. I was the worst person to try and be a Puffer and carry Thad Elon. Every glocken game I ever played was proof of that.

Fortunately, the mob was stopped.

Plenty of people could get past or around Grah, but when they did, they stood looking and waiting, not sure what to do. A riot doesn’t need a leader, but it does need momentum.

Grah was a big enough rock in the stream that the water just became a trickle and meandered off in different directions.





CHAPTER 67




I was beginning to think that Candar was playing this like a real glocken game and he had taken Thad Elon all the way back to the stadium so he could score in the end zone.

Where the hell was he?

I was about to tele him when I felt a hand on my shoulder from behind.

I tried to backhand punch whoever it was and found myself on the ground with Candar leaning over me. He had caught my wrist, overextended me, and then tripped my legs so that I fell.

“Hi,” he said, as if he hadn’t just thrown me to the ground.

“Where have you been?” I said, slowly getting up.

“Waiting for you. Are your legs hurt or something?” he asked seriously.

“No. I mean, maybe. I got shot I think. Maybe that’s slowing me down,” I said weakly.

“Where are the others?” he asked.

“Neddy got swept away. I don’t think he’s coming. He doesn’t do well without directions. Grah is holding back the tide. The cops left,” I said.

“Bley-ore teled me. He said he’s lost and we should go on without him.”

“Alright. It’s not much further.”

Candar could probably walk on his hands carrying the bag in his teeth and still be faster than me. He also didn’t look tired at all.

The lights were on so I’m not sure what was up with the Quadrad. Maybe they lost track of us or didn’t have the ability to shut down this area.

In any case, we had just reached the edge of the docks and there wasn’t much activity here. It was mostly warehouses and facilities that dealt with spaceships. I assumed any dockworkers would be busy doing their jobs and not worrying about us.

We had gone through most of the docks to reach the berth where my ship was when we were confronted by three men with guns.

They were dressed well and wore Ulteem’s heraldry.

Great.

“We figured you was coming here,” one of them said. “The question is—”

Candar spun around in a circle and I thought he was going to run away. But it was a complicated Twist move designed to get a low arc.

Thad Elon’s bag flew out, hit the three men, toppling two of them over. Candar rushed the third, pushed down the man’s gun with his left hand, then kicked up his right leg and caught the gangster under the chin. The poor guy’s jaw must have completely shattered and he was out cold.

I pulled out Gun by the time Candar had finished beating the second person.

“Freeze!” I said. And at that point, there was no one left to freeze except Candar, since he had dispatched the third man with a simple stomp to the throat, which crushed the man’s windpipe and left him incapacitated.

Candar picked up the bag.

“Let’s go,” he said.

“Those were all illegal moves,” I said, after we had travelled some ways.

“I used to be a Hack when I first started playing,” Candar replied.

I couldn’t believe it. Candar, the ultimate sportsman, used to be a dirty player!

“Why did you give me so much crap then?” I asked.

“Because it was my job. Just like it was your job to be a Hack.”

I wasn’t sure I understood that, but it didn’t matter.

“Here it is,” I said.



I had not seen my spaceship before. I couldn’t see it all, obviously, because most of it was out in space. But there were observation screens and terminals that gave you a view from just about every angle.

It looked terrible. Honestly. It was boxy and malformed and completely unsymmetrical. I know it didn’t have to be sleek and aerodynamic because it wasn’t meant to fly in atmosphere, but it looked like the ass end of a junkyard.

Zzzho let us in and Garm and Delovoa were already on board. I wish Cliston could have made it, but there wasn’t enough time.

“So let’s go and make us invisible,” I said.

“The ship doesn’t work like that,” Garm answered.

“Why not? That’s the whole reason I got this heap.”

“It can’t scramble the signals of tens of thousands of ships in this System and if you tried, it would just make everyone try and kill us,” she said.

“Then how are we going to get to the Portals undetected?” I asked, annoyed.

“No one will care. We just heard Maris-To is dead and the Central Authority ships are scattering,” Garm said.

“What if someone shoots at us?”

“We’ll power on our weapons,” Delovoa said.

“You installed guns already?” I asked.

“No, but no one else knows that. They can see it has turrets,” Delovoa answered.

“If one ship tries to attack us, we can scramble it. Though, we better be ready to run,” Garm said. “Is that him?” Garm pointed to the bag.

I had somehow forgotten about Thad Elon.

“Yeah.”

I unzipped the sack to display the slightly disheveled immortal.

“Hello, sir,” Delovoa began. And that alone sent a chill up my back. Delovoa being polite was a testament to the power we had in front of us. “Do you think you could tell us about your plans to mutate this System? It might be very…exciting if we could stop it.”

We all looked to Thad Elon.

“Why do you believe you have any chance of interrupting my arrangements? I have many billions of years more experience than you all,” he said. He seemed genuinely interested in our answer. Like he couldn’t comprehend why we were even trying.

“I’m just stubborn, I guess,” I said.

I kicked him in the face because I wanted to. It actually hurt my toes. And although it whipped back his head, he didn’t show any signs of discomfort.

“We can’t wait for the others to get here. Delovoa, give Zzzho the directions to one of our newly-operational Portals,” I said.





CHAPTER 68




Garm and MTB were right, no one cared about us. We were just one more spaceship in the System.

Zzzho was flying, Garm was moving in between the various sensor controls, Candar was standing on top of Thad Elon, Delovoa was giving instructions to our gaseous pilot, and I was doing nothing—which I liked to consider one of my specialties.

The adrenaline wore off and I had a moment to get a good look at Delovoa. He had apparently discovered cosmetics and applied them liberally in an effort to hide the grotesquery that was his patchwork body.

But make-up was a skill. It took years to understand the subtlety of highlight or shadow; how colors blended and muted and complimented each other; the curves and ridges and depths that made up a face.

Delovoa looked like a really frightening clown. He used the most garish colors and seemed to have applied them with a paint roller.

The trip took several hours and I almost got up the courage to ask Delovoa what look he was going for, but I kept remembering that I was on my way to try and stop Belvaille—and maybe myself—from getting mutated. Delovoa’s obscene face was the absolute least of our concerns.

“What’s wrong with Delovoa?” Garm whispered to me, as she was walking from a console.

“He’s a genius sociopath living in the rotting body he created by splicing together porn stars and gang members,” I replied. That answer seemed to satisfy Garm and she returned to the controls.

I went over to Candar to see how he was doing. He didn’t appear to particularly enjoy standing on the creator, and destroyer, of the Colmarian Confederation, but Thad Elon didn’t seem to mind.

Irune probably wasn’t plotting anything at this moment, but it just seemed like a bad idea to have him walking around unattended.

He might even have built this spaceship—or built the people who built it.



We reached the first Portal and decided that Delovoa and I would enter.

Delovoa was needed to evaluate whatever technology was in the Portal and I was there to protect him. I would have totally liked to trade jobs with Candar and sit on top of Thad Elon, but I was far more durable than he was and there were only two spacesuits on the ship, one of which fit me. It had only been at the last minute that we decided to bring more people.

Zzzho was a good pilot and this ship wasn’t a taxi. It was big enough to be subdivided into sections, each with its own pressure seal. It had three exits, two of which had ramps that could be lowered. It was a simple matter of crawling across one of the ramps to the Portal.

The Portal was metal, and so massive I couldn’t determine its shape or dimensions. I had never seen a Portal, really, which seemed odd living in the System that was known for Portals. But they didn’t have any lights, and in general, they were things you just took for granted as being there.

Frankly, I wasn’t doing a lot of sightseeing while I grasped the ramp, completely exposed to outer space.

Delovoa used his magnetic boots, but I was too massive for those little magnets to hold me in place so he advised me to use my hands. I one-upped him and was hugging the ramp with my arms and legs.

It felt like it took twenty minutes for Delovoa to open the hatch. When we got inside, I was surprised and annoyed to find there was no artificial gravity or air.

The Portal was not exactly meant for habitation.

We had used one of the lowest access points instead of the more centrally-located freight doors. Delovoa felt that if there was anything bad here, they would be guarding the larger entrances.

I was concerned that even if there was a little firecracker of a booby trap, it could rupture my suit and kill me. What was the point of being bulletproof if a bb gun was lethal?

I really hated space.

It was a long, long slog through the Portal.

Really long. We had to climb up ladder after ladder and shoot through a dozen different access shafts. I was still tired from my two triumphant plays in the Championship, but mostly from running across the city.

You’d think being weightless would make all this easy, but I still had mass and momentum. I couldn’t just go propelling myself in tight quarters or I’d smash into something and break open my helmet. It had to be a controlled movement the entire time and my arms were getting exhausted.

Delovoa checked on things here and there which gave me a chance to rest. I had some food with me, but I couldn’t eat it. Not without dying. I kept taking it out and looking at it because I was really hungry. I’d eaten some on the ship, but not enough.

“The Portal is powered on, but it isn’t functioning as a Portal. I see most of the subsystems are inoperable,” he said.

Our helmets had cheap radios to each other, but we couldn’t talk to the ship. We’d have to use our teles for that.

“So it is a big mutant-machine?” I asked.

“I won’t know until we search. All I can tell now is that it isn’t working like it should. It could be a malfunction,” he said.

“Do you think Thad Elon is lying?” I asked skeptically.

“No, but you’re still assuming this is where it’s located.”

“It has to be. They went offline, Xandale’s goons tried to scare us away—and succeeded—and now they’re back online with no assistance from anyone. You yourself said a Portal could be used to mutate the System,” I replied.

“I didn’t say that. I said I don’t know. I don’t even understand how Portals work. I just know how to fix them.”

“Well, it’s either this or ask around if anyone has seen any mutating devices,” I said.

“We should leave the System. You got a ship. We have Thad Elon. Why stay here?” Delovoa asked.

“Because this is our home. You’ve lived here about as long as me. Don’t you care that millions of people could be killed?” I asked.

“No,” Delovoa said without a moment’s hesitation.

“Besides, where would we go?” I asked.

“I got an idea. How about a System that isn’t about to be mutated by an immortal?” Delovoa offered.

“We’ll find it. You’ll fix it. We’ll be heroes. You’ll seeeeee!” My voice trailed off into a scream as the railing I was climbing on suddenly twisted away under me and I went plummeting sideways through pipes and cables and sheets of metal.

I hit a solid floor and my helmet shattered, maybe along with my skull.

Everything was so disorienting. I had lost track of up and down in the zero gravity, but apparently I was now on the floor. And there was gravity. And the fact I could breathe probably meant there was air.

I got to my feet and my left shoulder really hurt. I munched on the food rations I brought with me, not bothering to take off my busted helmet or gloves. I just stuffed the food through the crack in my faceplate and ate from the inside of my helmet like it was a bowl.

I wasn’t on the Portal.

It was obvious. Looking around at the walls, the floor, the adjoining rooms, I knew where I was: Floloria, the Rettosian space station. I could tell by the designs. It was all those boring aluminum walls with swirly three-dimensional lettering on things. The Rettosian language.

I had fallen through a hole and ended up tens of thousands of miles away!

The room I was in was large, open, and three stories tall, with railings and walkways on each story above me. Looking up, the roof was definitely solid, but it was occupied by a vast array of complicated electronic gear. Somehow, I had passed through that. But I noticed something a short distance away that really caught my attention.

It was row after row of shiny metal tubes. Each was about three to five feet in diameter and ranged from three to ten feet in height. I recognized them, but I couldn’t remember from where. There were similar tubes on each of the two floors above me.

I moved closer so I could inspect them.

“Ahh!” Delovoa hit the floor behind me. I actually witnessed part of his descent. It was like he suddenly appeared ten feet off the ground.

He was rolling around in pain and I remembered that a ten-foot drop was still a big deal to someone with a makeshift body.

“Where are we?” he screamed.

“Keep your voice down. We’re on Floloria,” I said.

“I’m not going to keep my voice down. How did we get here? How do you know where we are?”

Delovoa was getting hysterical. I grabbed him by the front of his spacesuit and shook him until he stopped talking. Which actually took longer than I expected.

“You okay now?” I asked cautiously.

“Let go of me! Hey, the cloning vats!” Delovoa said, looking at the metal tubes I had seen.

They were. About a century ago, when I had been running the city of Belvaille, we had been conned by the Ank. They had used clones of important people to manipulate us. We never figured out how they did it or who built them. Garm had rested in one of these tubes for decades as her doppelganger issued orders to keep us deceived.

“When I spoke to the Ank earlier and he told me of the financial Formula, I asked about the cloning they used. He said it was Rettosian technology,” I told Delovoa.

“But how did we get here? I don’t understand.”

“Remember I told you I got…like…teleported when I was on Floloria?”

Delovoa hadn’t believed me, chalking it up to fifty different more likely reasons. Such as me being a liar, or drugged, or not understanding what the word ‘teleportation’ meant.

But now he was staring around at our surroundings, which clearly did not belong in the Portal.

“Do you remember how to open them?” I asked.

“Open what?” he snapped.

“The cloning tubes,” I said.

“You’re not opening anything,” a voice declared.

I turned around and saw Xandale and three of his Factotum buddies walk in from another room. I couldn’t have been more surprised to see anyone. They were carrying rifles of designs I wasn’t familiar with, but which had the distinct appearance of looking very painful.

“What in”—and I almost made an exclamation about Thad Elon, but caught myself—“the heck are you doing here?”

“This is my client,” Xandale stated calmly. “I thought you would know by now.”

“Thad Elon is your client?”

“What?” he asked, looking confused.

There was an electric whirring noise and the ancient Rettosian I had met on Floloria before, drove his high-tech chair in. His head was still tilted to the side, his body looked like a set of toothpicks glued together, and unlike the flowing fountains of his brethren, this man’s skin had dried up and frozen into a gray, cracked surface. It wasn’t just cracked with wrinkles, it had real cracks, like a broken mirror—that happened to be reflecting a really old, ugly guy.

He pressed a button on his chair and a microphone swiveled up in front of his face.

“This is my client,” Xandale said.

“You will kill them if you open the bays,” the Rettosian said in a thick accent. He was only audible because of the microphone.

“Who are you?” I asked.

“I might inquire the same of you,” he said.

We stood there a moment until Delovoa nudged me.

“Tell him your name,” Delovoa said.

“Oh. I’m Hank. You might know me as Stank Delicious,” I said, and then immediately felt absurd for saying that. “Just Hank, really.”

“And what are you doing here?” the old man asked.

“Wondering how you managed to make an instantaneous matter transference device from the Portal to here,” Delovoa demanded.

“It actually goes from here to the Portals. I am too old for space travel,” he explained.

The conversation all seemed so polite and ordinary.

“Xandale, do you know what this guy is doing?” I asked.

I really disliked Xandale, but I couldn’t believe he was in on this.

“What my clients do is their business. I respect their privacy,” Xandale intoned, as if he were recording a commercial for his company.

“You fool. This guy is going to mutate the entire System! You have any idea how many people will get hurt—or killed?” I asked.

Xandale suddenly lost a bit of his cool.

“I think you’re confused. We’re just changing the odds in glocken, old friend,” Xandale stated.

“All those players you kidnapped are genetic templates for mutations. Look at this machinery,” Delovoa said, indicating the room.

“And who are you?” Xandale asked.

“That’s Delovoa. You know him. The guy who conducted experiments on Belvaille citizens for years. Even he thinks this is immoral,” I said.

“Ah, so you’re the famous Delovoa,” the old man said.

“Well, I’m not sure about famous,” Delovoa replied, clearly flattered.

“I’ve followed your work for some time. Very pedestrian. Lacking imagination. You are clearly a product of the Colmarian Confederation’s pathetic education framework,” the old man stated.

Delovoa was a proud…mutant-monster-thing. If there was anything he loved most about himself, it was his intellect. He stood there fuming and fumbling. He was at a loss for words!

“See? This is why I always know what my clients are doing. You’ve been duped, Xandale. This has nothing to do with glocken. Why didn’t you investigate what they were really doing?” I asked.

“We were paid 1.2 billion credits up front,” Xandale replied flatly.

“Yeah, but…are you serious? 1.2 billion?”

“I have an order for not only my own heraldry, but a Lordship. They’re processing it now,” Xandale said.

“Hank. The mutations,” Delovoa reminded me.

“Right. That’s great and all, but Maris-To is dead, the government is in shambles, nobility doesn’t mean a whole lot, and the whole System is about to be bio-engineered,” I said.

Xandale was not smiling for once and his men looked pretty uncomfortable.

“One moment,” he said to me, and turned to the ancient Rettosian. “I’m afraid Factotum Doctrine forces me to ask if there is any truth to what he said.”

“Are you wearing your security bracelets?” the old man wheezed.

Xandale looked down at his wrist, confused.

“The services of Univox Factotal are no longer required,” the Rettosian continued.

He flicked a switch on his chair.

Krooosh!

Xandale and his men suddenly vanished.

I stood there unsure what to do.

“There is a Factotum Doctrine?” Delovoa asked me.

I shrugged.

“Yeah, so about the whole mutating Belvaille thing,” I said, trying to regroup. “We’re going to have to stop that.”

“You may try,” the ancient Rettosian said calmly.

If it was a bluff, it was a great one. Because this guy looked like if I spit on him, he would die. He had to have something up his geriatric sleeve. Hopefully he couldn’t teleport us without bracelets or he would have already done so. I looked to Delovoa, who I noticed had taken a few steps away from me.

“So, I don’t want to hurt you,” I continued.

“Be my guest,” he said.

I looked back at Delovoa again, who was now at the opposite end of the room.

This had to be a bluff, right? Then again, he had just teleported us across the System by accident and teleported Xandale on purpose. Who knew what else he could do?

I took off my cracked helmet and gloves. I wanted to have a little more freedom of movement. I would have taken off the rest of my spacesuit but then I would have to sit down and it took a while and I had kind of been called out by a thousand-year-old Rettosian and now it looked like I was stalling.

I pulled out Gun and pointed it at the old man and took a deep breath.

“Tell us about the mutations. How do we stop them?” I demanded.

The old man leaned almost imperceptibly forward.

“You would attempt to use my own weapon against me?” he asked.

I looked at Gun and the old man.

“Yeah. So? It’s mine now,” I said.

“Is it?”

My knees buckled, I fell forward, and my face smacked into the floor.

“Hank! Hank!” I heard Delovoa calling from what sounded like a mile away.

I was so unbelievably tired! If there had been a snooze button on Delovoa’s yammering, I wouldn’t even have had the strength to hit it.

But the wave passed and I slowly found myself blinking back to reality.

I rolled on my side and noticed I had been drooling. That was indicative that I had been lying in that position for quite some time. Either that or I had learned how to speed-drool.

My limbs were not responding very well. It was like I was insanely drunk and had a hangover at the same time. But I managed to sit up on my knees and face the old man.

“Sowwy,” I said. “I didn’t know id dure gun.”

I felt an apology wasn’t out of order.

“I designed it,” the old Rettosian said.

“Eh. Gud stuss,” I said, trying to compliment him.

I felt my arm twist and Gun was now pointing directly at my own head!

“It is an obsolete manufacture, but reliable,” he said.

“Gun! Don Shoo!” I pleaded.

But Gun did not reply, other than to say:

“Bang!”

My head jerked to the side with the blast and I slumped forward again.

I tried to release Gun from my grasp but I couldn’t. As I was groaning on the ground and slowly flopping about, the old Rettosian seemed suddenly intrigued.

“You’re an Ontakian! I created you as well,” he said.

“Wow. You ged aroung, dohwn you?” I slurred. “How dyou know Thad Edon?”

“What is that?” he asked.

“Hank, he probably used a different name with the Rettosians,” Delovoa said from a safe distance.

“You cannot begin to comprehend what I have done, amateur,” the old man said of Delovoa.

Delovoa was a genius beyond a doubt, but he couldn’t hope to build the things that this Rettosian claimed to have created.

“Well. You’re old!” Delovoa replied, hoping that was some stinging slander.

“Yes, I am. I have seen the rise and fall of empires—and have even taken a hand in them. But the pursuit of knowledge has always been my only concern. While you, on the other hand, waste your efforts toying with inconsequential tasks,” the old man continued.

“How long do you have left to live? Minutes? Seconds? My legacy will outlive yours,” Delovoa challenged. He now walked closer, emboldened.

I finally managed to let go of Gun. Maybe because the old man was no longer paying much attention to me or because he had written me off. My head was ringing and I was still incredibly weak, but I felt myself recovering. My stomach was grumbling.

“Is that carcass you reside in your grasp at immortality? This body of mine is merely one of my clones. One of dozens. I shall outlive not only you, but your entire species, if history is any indication of your future,” the Rettosian said.

I was getting my senses back and managed to stand up. I took a closer look at the room while I had the opportunity. The two floors above all contained tubes and all contained machinery. All the exact same machinery. Each floor was a duplicate, other than the tube sizes.

“Delovoa. The floors go to the Portals. He’s going to teleport the tubes there,” I said.

The old man made the briefest and crustiest chuckle ever.

“Very good. I built you well. Even though I see you are merely a combat version. How embarrassing for you, Delovoa, that it took an Ontakian to explain my designs. Of course, I have an obligation to continue with my experiment,” he said.

He pressed a button on his chair and all of the tubes on the first floor cracked open with a hiss.

Delovoa was furious. I had never seen him this mad.

He pulled out something from his belt pouch and pointed it at the old man.

“Suck suck, suckface!” He yelled.

He pulled the trigger and Delovoa’s little gun fired, and missed. He fired again. Missed. He fired four more times and finally hit the old man once out of that barrage.

It wasn’t a big gun, but it didn’t need to be. The old Rettosian gasped and fell out of his chair onto the ground, looking very much dead.

“Why did you shoot him?” I asked. “He knew everything!”

“He was an asshole,” Delovoa said, still raging.

I couldn’t believe Delovoa. Here we were holding on to Thad Elon who wouldn’t tell us a thing and we couldn’t harm in any way, but we just killed the one guy who could have explained all this stuff. Including my own background.

The tubes on the first floor were now being vacated. It didn’t take me long to see that the occupants were many of the missing glocken players.

They were everything from tiny 1-lanes to hulking 8-lanes. There were about forty of them all sleepily emerging from the tubes. They wore sensors on their bodies and stretchy coveralls.

“Welcome back to life,” I proclaimed magnanimously.

Off to my left, I heard a shriek and I suddenly got clipped in my left knee. It didn’t knock me down, but it still hurt.

I saw a big rodent-like thing had run into me.

There were similar roars and grumblings and psyching-ups from everyone else. They did not seem happy to be free.

“They must be clones of the original players,” Delovoa said.

“Really? Did the dead guy tell you that?” I asked bitterly.

“He wasn’t going to tell us anything. He was a clone, too,” Delovoa replied.

The clone players were basically warming up. Some were even doing stretches. But they were all staring at Delovoa and me.

“So what do we do? I can’t take on forty players. Do you have any super weapons?” I asked.

“No, I have tools. I was expecting to work on the Portals, not get transported to Floloria and insulted,” he said. Delovoa had moved directly behind me, seeking cover.

A runner charged forward, yelling loudly. But he must have been a 2-lane or something and when he connected, I reached down and pulled his arms back until both shoulders dislocated.

I wasn’t concerned about those guys, but there were at least a dozen upper lanes with a combined weight probably bordering 50,000 pounds. I couldn’t stop that much meat. If they did nothing but jump on top of us, we’d be crushed or suffocated.

But as usual my most pessimistic fears turned out to be unfounded.

Delovoa seemed to be correct and that these were clones. We had experienced clones before—probably originating from the same Rettosian scientist—and in each case, they were really stupid. For whatever reason, all clones seemed to be missing a large chunk of their brains. I don’t know why, maybe that was just part of the clone recipe. The Rettosian could have told us why if Delovoa hadn’t murdered him.

In any case, they were mere shadows of their former selves. They lacked strategy and coordination and subtlety. It was like they were going through only the most basic motions that had been drilled into their subconscious.

I was playing my best glocken game ever.

I had even taken up Gun’s habit of making bombastic sound-effects to my own plays. Kablow! Blam-o! Shablam!

I sent a giant eight-armed defender sprawling after it came lumbering at me, totally unbalanced and not protecting itself.

I was not only feeling pretty good about our chances; I was feeling pretty good about myself in general. After a season of degrading berating and otherwise being the notoriously bad Stank Delicious, I was standing against the combined wrath of numerous teams and dispatching them with style.

Just then, the contents of the entire third floor vanished with a blinding light.

Stopping to stare at it, I took a few punches and kicks and low blows.

“It’s starting,” Delovoa said.

“We have to shut the process down.”

“How are we going to do that?” Delovoa asked.

He was right. It was one thing to actively fight them off, but we wouldn’t be able to tinker with machinery while forty professional glocken players beat on our heads. Clones or not.

It was then I took a punch to the nose which brought me back to the problem at hand. In front of me stood none other than Kitt. Boomy Boom Boomy.

She looked great—for a clone. But she was rabid and berserk, flailing on me with both fists.

“It’s Kitt,” I said, covering myself from the blows.

“No, it’s a clone. Crush her and let’s go,” Delovoa said.

“Go where? We’re on Floloria. I had a hard enough time leaving here when I wasn’t an enemy of their species,” I said.

The second floor’s contents disappeared with a woosh.

“It looks like it’s on a two-minute cycle,” Delovoa said.

“So what do we do?” I asked.

“Get in the tubes!” Delovoa cried.

“What? Why?”

“It will transport us back to the Portal. Or one of the Portals.”

“What if it mutates us? Or uses us to mutate others?” I asked.

“Then everyone will be fat and brilliant, but it’s better than staying here and dying,” Delovoa said.

“I don’t have my space suit. I won’t survive on a Portal,” I said, as Kitt boxed my ears.

“The clone tubes have life support. People lived in them for decades, remember? Find one that fits you, or we’re going to have to fight our way out of Floloria,” he said.

I picked up Gun and holstered it and barreled through the clones like a top-class Wedge. I found one of the wider tubes and started to get in.

It was not an easy process to climb into a cloning tube while a dozen Super Class clones were trying to drag me out and beat me senseless.

“Hurry, Hank,” Delovoa called, and I saw his tube close as several players slapped feebly against the cover.

I kicked out at the ones near me so that I could finally lie down.

But when I tried to close the hatch, it kept bumping into my knees or my head or my gut. I was too big for the tube.

I was pulling the lid and pushing at the grasping hands and trying to suck in my stomach and wiggle into the tight confines all at the same time.

I was really panicking now as I heard my tube warming up.

With a huge gasp, I slammed the lid. My feet were sideways, my shoulders about touched my chin and my nose and forehead were flat against the cold screen.

There were punches and kicks and I think one headbutt against the lid, but a bright flash erased it all.





CHAPTER 69




We got lucky. If you could call it that.

We teleported back to the same Portal we came from.

Delovoa still had his intact spacesuit so he was able to move about freely. He walked to my cloning tube, mouthed some stuff to me I couldn’t hear, and then he left.

I heard my tele going crazy in my pocket, but I couldn’t reach it. I was taking little half-breaths because I was afraid if I exhaled with relief, I would blow the lid off this stupid cloning tube and die in the vacuum of space.

Delovoa went back to our ship. From there they all returned to Belvaille to retrieve more spacesuits and a heavy lifter capable of dragging me out. It would take them about ten hours to make the trip, but I didn’t know that.

I was trapped with my thoughts, alone in a Portal.

I didn’t know if I was about to be mutated, if I had been mutated, or if Delovoa left me to die. Also, what was happening in the System now that Maris-To was assassinated, the Championship had been interrupted, and Thad Elon was missing? I didn’t know anything.

But I was not a philosopher king.

There are those who are destined for Great Thoughts and dwelling on The Meaning of this or that.

I was not one of those people.

I got stuff done and tried to have a good time doing it.

Let the Big Thinkers think. I mean, someone’s got to do it.

But when they get muscled out of their universities, or someone kidnaps their disciples, they’re going to come asking me for help.

So in a way, I was just as important. No, I didn’t invent cloning, or mutations, or spaceships, but I beat up the people who did.

That had to count for something.



When they finally pulled me out, I was asleep and covered in rations that I had managed to wiggle up from my pocket to my mouth. I probably burned more calories doing it than I consumed, but it kept me occupied.

A lot had happened in ten hours.

Cliston had reached safety and that was the best news I had all week.

Magda Strongarm had been captured, but it was by fans of the Belvaille Glocken Team, and they celebrated her brilliant non-loss enthusiastically.

The Central Authority was trying to sort itself, and its warships, out. So far there were no hostilities, but I wasn’t sure if that would last.

The nobles of Belvaille were instantly demoted into glorified merchants—if they were lucky. If they were unlucky, they were robbed and demoted into fertilizer.

It was all about the gangs now. The ones who had been controlling the unions. Controlling the facilities. Controlling everything. Lagla-Nagla was right. They were the ones with the real power. Once you popped Maris-To and the Central Authority broke up, there was nothing holding the gangs in check.

To my great annoyance, Ulteem was one of the major players. There was a lot of whispering that he had ordered the hit on Maris-To. But it could have been anyone. Maris-To had not exactly been well-liked. I still owed Ulteem for setting me up, but this certainly wasn’t the time to go picking fights.

The Championship became old news in the face of all the changes. It was still a hot issue in the far-flung regions of the galaxy, but in Belvaille, we had far more pressing concerns.

I managed to keep my building. Cliston was the cause of that. When looters were making their rounds, they came to my place and saw Cliston standing out front with two grenades primed in each hand. He was a Dredel Led robot and could stand there all day and night.

Which he did.

Of course, the big question was what happened in the Portals with the mutation equipment.

Immediately after we were teleported, the Portals activated. People in the System said it was like a stinging heat that they couldn’t get away from. It lasted a few minutes and was gone.

Something had happened.

There were a large number of casualties. Maybe they were too close to the Portals or their physiologies weren’t compatible. Who could say?

Delovoa was anxious to inspect the mutation devices. I think because he wanted to borrow whatever technology he could find that the Rettosian scientist had built. But all the clones had been killed and the bulk of the machinery had self-destructed.

We never did find any of the missing players, including Kitt. We guessed that once they had been cloned, the originals were disposed of. Why they had needed clones instead of the original players was anyone’s guess. Maybe they were just easier to deal with, or maybe their bodies had to be modified for use by the mutation instruments.

I was also on the lookout for Xandale. Duped or not, he had tried to murder me at least once. But the old Rettosian could have teleported him anywhere. If he was still alive, he didn’t make it known and Univox Factotal closed its doors almost immediately.

We didn’t know if we were mutated or not. It’s not as if an arm was going to spontaneously sprout from our foreheads. Mutations took time to develop.

The Portal that Delovoa and I occupied hadn’t activated like the other two did. Probably because most of the tubes were empty. Delovoa hoped that we would be spared any mutation.

But for all I knew, in a year I could be twice as fat, and three times as dumb.





CHAPTER 70




Delovoa was now living on the third floor of my building and his job was to try and whip up some security measures for our home while I was away. He would have plenty of time.

In my ship, the Suckface, Zzzho was piloting, Garm was operating our sensor-blocking, and I was guarding the cargo.

Naked Guy, Irune, Thad Elon seemed pleased with himself, but otherwise, he didn’t speak.

We took twelve Portal hops out to the middle of nowhere and kept going. It was a four-month trip. It was grueling and we were paranoid about being followed. We barely spoke the entire time, and when we did, we whispered.

Finally, when we were so far away from absolutely anything that you could quite realistically say we were in the void, we came to a stop.

I put on my spacesuit and approached the shackled, bound, and tied Thad Elon. He was in a black suit that partially scattered scanning wavelengths.

“What did the Boranjame tell you about me?” Thad Elon asked. This was the first he had spoken in four months.

“Not much,” I lied.

“You know I can’t be killed. I will return someday and finish what I started,” he said.

“What’s that? Mutating everyone?” I asked.

“No. Destroying all life in the galaxy,” he said, with the briefest of smiles.

He must have seen me flinch.

“Don’t worry too much. I won’t do it until all the collective species have festered to the point that they are incapable of any originality—which I believe is inevitable. You may be long gone by that point.”

“Let’s hope,” I said.

Zzzho opened the airlock and I covered Thad Elon’s face and made sure he was bound tight.

I then aligned myself with the coordinates on my tele, and gave Thad Elon the smallest of nudges. Delovoa had calculated that in this direction there was nothing for about eight light-years.

The bag containing the immortal floated out. I watched until I could no longer recognize it against the inky background.

Thad Elon didn’t kick. He didn’t struggle.

He was perfectly content to wait.





The Unnecessarily Detailed Description of Glocken




No one is quite sure where and how the sport of glocken originated.

There is one legend that it started as a mating dance involving fermented liquids, which would subsequently turn violent. Another story guesses that it came about much later, when space lanes were opened and Colmarian Confederation ships regularly collided with one another. One theory that has quite a lot of backing is that the game wasn’t a game at all, but a meditation on the futility of existence and sports in particular. In any case, historians the galaxy over have mostly agreed that glocken has had an overall detrimental effect on the advancement of civilization.

The only reason glocken became so outrageously popular over the millennia was because the game is playable by nearly every species. There are lots of sports that are played in the galaxy. But when you have untold races competing, there are bound to be ringers who simply make the game boring.

For instance, if there was a game that required height, the twelve-foot-tall Banur would likely dominate and it wouldn’t have as many fans. If a game required speed, the Po or Dallnast would make short work of it.

People loved playing sports, they loved watching sports, but they also liked to imagine themselves, however remote the chance, participating. If you had to have at least twelve kneecaps to be a benchwarmer in a sport, only the hardcore gamblers were going to follow it.

Glocken could accommodate all shapes and sizes and abilities.

The game was organized into lanes, 1 through 8.

The smaller, quicker players were usually in the low lanes, while the stronger, heavier players were in the upper lanes.

Each lane carried a token on offense.

A token was a disc with a rope-like loop on each side. In junior leagues the token would be wood or plastic; in the professionals it was a complicated electronic device weighted and balanced with metal.

You could throw tokens, hand them off, roll them, do anything at all to get them to another person or even an area on the field. Offensive players were never declared down or out, only tokens.

A token was dead if it was taken completely from an opposing player and held for five seconds—five seconds being a key duration in glocken. The professional leagues had sensors in the loops to determine this, otherwise it was up to the referees. A token was also dead if you knocked a player down while he held a token, generally defined as not moving for five seconds since “down” could be relative with some species. If a token went out of bounds it was immediately killed and out of play.

You could drop a token at any time. This could be used to distract the other team because they had to hold it if they wanted to kill that token, otherwise, an offensive player could always go back and retrieve it.

If offense and defense both held the same token, it was contested, and wouldn’t be uncontested unless the offensive player holding it went down for five seconds, went out of bounds with it, or scored.

Each lane carried tokens of different weights. At intramural and non-professional ranks, the weights didn’t vary much because it was usually all the same species playing and they simply didn’t have much diversity.

At the Super Class level, which was the most widely-broadcast professional league, the weights were:



Lane

Weight of Token

Points for Scoring



1

1 pound

1



2

5 pounds

2



3

10 pounds

3



4

40 pounds

4



5

100 pounds

7



6

500 pounds

11



7

1,000 pounds

16



8

4,000 pounds

22





The vast majority of points were scored in the 1-4 lanes. Usually one and two. The heavy tokens were hard to move, impossible to throw, and only a few people per team could carry them. Often the players in those lanes would simply drop their tokens and help block for their lighter teammates.

There were also weight limits on the players to prevent gross imbalances. In Super Class, the first four lanes of players could not weigh more than 2,000 pounds total. The second four players could not weigh more than 25,000 pounds.

Players had to be certified to carry the token in their lane, which meant walk with it across the field. So you couldn’t stick a ninety-pound guy in lane eight and pretend he was going to carry a 4,000-pound token.

The objective, of course, was to carry or hold the token uncontested in the end zone, which would give the offensive team that token’s points. You only had to hold a token for one second uncontested in the end zone to score.

Once all the tokens were dead or scored, the offensive team switched to defense.

There was only one global score. If one team was ahead by five, and the opposing team scored five, the score was now zero. So one minute it could be Faintly Flounderers 25 and the next minute Obscene Grandmothers 6.

There was also no time limit on glocken games but there were numerous conditions under which a game could be ended.

If fans stopped watching, the game would be declared over. For televised games, the referees would tell the coaches that viewership was going down. The team that was winning would then try and be as dull as possible so the game would be called in their favor, and the team that was losing would try and execute exciting plays to bring viewers back. Even pickup games played for fun usually recruited official “fans” who would sit around and watch as long as they were entertained.

Player’s spouses could call off a game. Early games had gone on for so long that relationships and even marriages would fall apart. So the spouses formed powerful unions and they made their opinions known. Again, in non-professional games, this happened all the time, with angry boy/girl/thing-friends coming to the lanes and demanding the players return home to dinner.

The referees could call the game. This was usually due to injuries or overmatched teams. Referees were generally very well-respected. All the bad ones had been murdered a long time ago, so it wasn’t an occupation to enter lightly. The standards were quite high.

Both teams could agree to end a game. This wasn’t as hard as it sounded. If one team was getting dominated, they simply wouldn’t line up.

The game could also end if there weren’t enough players. Teams needed a “fiver” to keep playing. Any combination of players carrying tokens that totaled five points. Either a four lane and one, or a two and a three, or a five and higher. You could have a game with just one player versus one other player and it would still be considered glocken.

Glocken games often ended abruptly for one or another reason and there was never much anger at the cause. If you couldn’t keep your fans, or your boyfriend got mad at you, that was part of the game.

At the start of each offense, the teams would line up three-quarters of the field away from the end zone they were trying to reach. There was no continuing progress, no half-measures. You scored or the token was dead. Then the next team was on offense at their own quarter line.

Fields varied in length, but the Super Class was 400 feet with thirty-foot end zones.

The offense had to start directly on their own line of scrimmage, but the defense could line up anywhere they wanted, as long as it was in bounds and on their side of the line.

You could replace up to four of your players between offense to defense. Often the low lane offense would be replaced with heavier, more durable defenders.

Players were allowed protective gear and you could cover 50% of a player’s surface area with equipment. Since all species were different, and not everyone’s vitals were in the same location, this was an early compromise.

To decide who played offense first was a typically complicated process.

One team would first flip a coin. The winner of that would then flip another coin and one of the referees would hold his fingers behind his back. If the result of the fingers and the binary result of the coin toss was odd, then the flipping team would go on offense first. If the referees didn’t have fingers, they could use toes, or appendages, or pebbles, or something that could be hidden from view. The coin toss was a contest in itself.

There were many specialized positions in glocken.

TILT: Player who requires numerous defenders to tackle him. Someone who tilted the field. They were almost always the heaviest and strongest players on the team. The problem was that each team got them and then they just bumped into each other and didn’t do anything. The upper lanes almost never scored.

WEIGHT: Defensive players. Basically, just grabbed hold of the offense and slowed them up until their team could assist. Since you didn’t get credit for moving down field, only scoring, you could take your time and kill tokens at the last minute.

CAPTAIN: Called plays and action.

KILLER: These were expert defenders at making tokens dead. Stripping them from offense or intercepting passes or tackling. Tackling was actually a last resort and often a poor use of force and time since most lanes were relatively equal in player weight. But it was a general name for defenders and there were sub-roles such as Strippers, Chasers, Stoppers.

HACK: A player whose purpose was to hurt other players. Not an official position, but everyone knew what they were and who they were and what they were doing. They had to be careful as a penalty could be called by the referees if it was too egregious.

PUFFER: A fast token runner, almost exclusively 1-, 2-, or 3-lane. They scored the majority of the points in games and many teams were built around star Puffers.

WEDGE: A blocker who tried to clear paths for runners, often dropping his own token.

TWISTS: Throwers. Tokens weren’t exactly designed for throwing. The best throwers did a sort of rotational twist. Some were skilled enough to have a token land on its edge and roll. Most Twists limited themselves to lower lanes so they could get some range, and someone can catch the light tokens without dying. To throw a token, you had to be behind the line of scrimmage, but you could have it drop anywhere and it didn’t have to be caught. Good Twists were nearly as valuable as good Puffers on offense.

FORWARDS: Players who waited for a throw. Depending on their lane, they could also help with blocking or simply be distractions.





Belvaille Glocken Team Line-Up




Weight (lbs)

Name - Race

Token Weight (lbs)

Position



15,000

Grah - Gandrine

4,000

Tilt



1,000

Tobo - Colmarian

1,000

Twist



3,300

Hank - Ontakian

1,000

Weight / Hack



1,000

Bley-ore - Colmarian

500

Wedge



500

Candar - Colmarian

100

Captain / Forward / Twist / Killer



550

Kitt - Colmarian

40

Puffer / Forward



250

Neddy - Qwintine

10

Puffer / Killer



120

Garm - Colmarian

5

Puffer



150

Yorsh - Colmarian

5

Puffer



270

Meggaar - Colmarian

5

Killer



100

Ziggy/Ziggles - Po

1

Puffer / Killer



90

Porj - Colmarian

1

Puffer





