HARD LUCK HANK



ROBOT FARTS



by

Steven Campbell





web page: http://www.belvaille.com



facebook: http://www.facebook.com/hardluckhank





cover art by Ian Llanas

proofreading by http://lectorsbooks.com/editing





All images and content Copyright © 2016 Steven Campbell

All rights reserved.





Web links may incur a data charge, may not be available at future dates, and are subject to change.





This is dedicated to the readers, listeners, and supporters who have made Hard Luck Hank sustainable. Thanks again.





TABLE OF CONTENTS:

CHAPTER 1

CHAPTER 2

CHAPTER 3

CHAPTER 4

CHAPTER 5

CHAPTER 6

CHAPTER 7

CHAPTER 8

CHAPTER 9

CHAPTER 10

CHAPTER 11

CHAPTER 12

CHAPTER 13

CHAPTER 14

CHAPTER 15

CHAPTER 16

CHAPTER 17

CHAPTER 18

CHAPTER 19

CHAPTER 20

CHAPTER 21

CHAPTER 22

CHAPTER 23

CHAPTER 24

CHAPTER 25

CHAPTER 26

CHAPTER 27

CHAPTER 28

CHAPTER 29

CHAPTER 30

CHAPTER 31

CHAPTER 32

CHAPTER 33

CHAPTER 34

CHAPTER 35

CHAPTER 36

CHAPTER 37

CHAPTER 38

CHAPTER 39

CHAPTER 40

CHAPTER 41

CHAPTER 42

CHAPTER 43

CHAPTER 44

CHAPTER 45

CHAPTER 46

CHAPTER 47

CHAPTER 48

CHAPTER 49

CHAPTER 50

CHAPTER 51

CHAPTER 52

CHAPTER 53

CHAPTER 54

CHAPTER 55

CHAPTER 56

CHAPTER 57

CHAPTER 58

CHAPTER 59

CHAPTER 60

CHAPTER 61

CHAPTER 62

CHAPTER 63

CHAPTER 64

CHAPTER 65

CHAPTER 66

CHAPTER 67

CHAPTER 68

CHAPTER 69

CHAPTER 70

CHAPTER 71





CHAPTER 1




“Hello, this is your captain, Hank. I am required by law to inform you of the procedures in case of sudden exposure to vacuum.”

The people on board my spaceship, the Suckface, groaned.

“Guys, this is important,” I said.

“Everyone, shut up,” Najosa barked.

Najosa was a member of the Ontakian species. Same as me. She was a blonde woman with skin so shiny smooth it looked bulletproof—and it was. She was the leader of the six Ontakians who were all crammed inside my ship.

“These emergency pressure suits are located to the fore and aft. To activate them, grasp both handles firmly, stretch your arms apart like this, and depress the triggers with your thumbs,” I said, demonstrating.

“If we get sucked into space, we aren’t going to have time to walk over and grab a pressure suit,” one of the Ontakians stated.

“Well, it can’t hurt,” I said, putting away my prop since no one was paying attention.

My spaceship was an old military corvette and was hardly comfortable or speedy. It wasn’t a great choice as a transport. I suspect I was hired because the ship was fuel efficient.

Another reason they booked passage with me was because I was a fellow Ontakian, which seemed important to them. Of course, they shouldn’t have known my race because I kept it a secret. But someone had told them.

“You’re out of alcohol, do you have any more in storage?” my uncle Frank asked. “Don’t say you’re still mad at me,” he sighed, on seeing my expression.

Frank was a burly guy. A real street brawler. He wore a fully enclosed facemask that pumped his own special brand of air. He swore the composition was the same as our destroyed home world, but I noticed none of the other Ontakians used it.

“You told me never tell my true origins to anyone,” I said to Frank.

I wasn’t ashamed of being an Ontakian. I knew very little about them. We were a slave species that had been bio-engineered. We rebelled against our creators and then went to war with the old Colmarian Confederation. We lost. Now we were nearly extinct. This ship of passengers was the most Ontakians I had ever seen in one place.

“I told you not to tell any Colmarians your heritage. Besides, this involves money. I got you a paying job,” he said.

“You also got yourself hired.”

“See? It’s a win-win,” he replied.

My uncle was kind of a scumbag. But as of seven years ago, I didn’t know I had any relatives left. Frank filled in a lot of gaps about my history. Unfortunately, he came with strings attached.

Like getting me to transport a group of Ontakians to raid a military base.

“We got five minutes until landing. Strap in if you haven’t already,” Zzzho said.

Zzzho was a friend of mine. He was also the perfect spaceship pilot. As a Keilvin Kamigan, he was a sentient gas cloud plugged directly into the ship’s controls. He didn’t eat, sleep, or take up space, and he provided fuel for the ship using his own body.

“You realize this bucket doesn’t have any guns, right?” I asked Najosa.

“The military base has no anti-aircraft defenses and no ships of its own to chase us. They get monthly supplies. They’ll think we’re another delivery,” Najosa replied.

“How long will you all be at the base?” I asked.

“We need you to come with us,” Najosa said.

“What?”

“Hank, they’re asking what the name of our vessel is,” Zzzho said.

“Don’t tell them it’s the Suckface!” I shouted.

“Okay,” Zzzho replied. “They want to know what our business is.”

“Cleaning supplies,” Najosa stated.

The ship was silent for a moment other than the usual beeps and boops from the equipment.

“They gave us clearance,” Zzzho said.

“What did you say the ship’s name was?” I asked.

“The ‘Don’t Tell Them It’s The Suckface,’” Zzzho replied.

“No! I meant make up a different name. We can’t land now,” I said.

“We flew all this way here. We’re doing this. Get ready,” Najosa answered sternly.

“Why do you want me to come with you? That wasn’t the deal. You hired me to transport you guys. I’m no commando,” I said.

“We aren’t commandos either. Only you, Frank, and Najosa are combat model Ontakians. Nordan and I are technicians. Shella was created to be an architect. Alase is a hazardous waste handler,” Meltar said.

“This is fine information to learn moments before you launch an invasion of a military base,” I said.

“You’re also a mutant,” Shella added.

“You told them I’m a mutant?” I asked Frank.

He shrugged.

“You’re like 3,000 pounds. You’re either the fattest Ontakian that ever lived or something weird is going on,” Frank said.

“I’m not very comfortable with this,” I complained.

“I have every confidence in your abilities. I saw you play professional glocken,” Najosa said. “If we are successful, you’ll be in for a percentage of the score.”

Najosa had diamond-colored eyes. They even glittered like those precious stones. I had never seen anything like it. I felt my resolve faltering like it always did when a tough, beautiful woman asked me to do something incredibly dangerous and stupid.

“I don’t even know what you all are trying to do,” I said.

“We’re striking back at the corrupt empire of the Colmarian Confederation,” she snarled.





CHAPTER 2




Somewhere I heard that the universe tends toward chaos. Or destruction. Or dirtiness. Or something like that. If that’s true, maybe the Colmarian Confederation form of government was inevitable.

Seven years ago, Arch Minister Maris-To had been assassinated, and the Belvaille System had come to an end. I thought for sure we would be in for a period of warlords and maybe another civil war.

But no.

It’s like the galaxy had been some huge rubber band stretched to extremes, and it suddenly snapped back into shape. And by that, I mean it rebuilt the most awkward and incompetent government in the history of governments.

No one was sure what to name it at first, so they described what it came after.

We were now non-residents of the Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation. That was honestly, truly the name of our empire—though most called it the PCC for short.

Those of us in Belvaille System were non-residents because we didn’t have a planet. Planethood was the key factor in governing the glorious new PCC.

There were three Houses of Parliament in our new nation-state. One was based on the population of each member planet. One was based on the number of planets. And no one could figure out the Third House of Parliament.

Seriously, every single person I asked about the Third House—which didn’t even have a real name—gave me a completely different answer.

To pass laws, you needed to get something called a “transparent majority” in two of the three Houses. From what I could tell, that meant one person, maybe a janitor, had to wipe his nose on a piece of paper and it became law.

The PCC created something on the order of four thousand laws a day. Every single day.

It’s like the ghost of the old Colmarian Confederation had been writing laws in the hundred-plus years since it was destroyed in the civil war, and now they were all vomiting out at high velocity.

To say I disliked the PCC was an understatement. It had turned the once-magnificent Belvaille space station into a ghost town, and completely wrecked my standard of living. I now had to take any job that poked its suicidal head at me, to keep food in my copious belly.

I wasn’t sure what could take the place of the PCC government, but as long as it wasn’t contagious crotch cancer, it would be an improvement.





CHAPTER 3




My spaceship went through the landing procedures at the military base. Not sure what to expect when we disembarked, I took out my gun, which was aptly named “Gun.”

Gun was not an ordinary pistol. He was glossy chrome and lacked a trigger, bullets, or mechanisms of any kind. He was also at least somewhat self-aware. I had to say “somewhat” because Gun was a bit of a philosopher. Not as in coming up with ideas to explain mortality and morality, but as in coming up with ideas to confuse everything.

He was not the most trustworthy of firearms, but when he had his thoughts straight, Gun was phenomenal. He could hit targets I wasn’t even aware of in their absolute most vulnerable spots, no matter how small.

“Gun, I’m about to go out into a possibly threatening situation, are you ready?” I asked the pistol.

“Hello. How would I know if I’m ready?” he replied.

That was a pretty typical response, so I put Gun back in his holster.

“I’m not especially happy with you using that weapon. It already shot me once,” Frank said.

“I’m not happy with being a shield for a bunch of pencil-pushing Ontakians when I was hired as a chauffeur. I’m going to use whatever weapons I want,” I replied.

“It shouldn’t come to that. I’m anticipating we can pull off this operation without any collateral damage,” Najosa said.

We landed, and got the green light that it was safe to open the hatch. I took a deep breath as I hit the controls to lower the ramp.

There were no missiles or gunfire. There wasn’t even anyone to meet us. It was an empty port.

There was a walkway tube, about fifteen feet in diameter, leading off to the larger facilities in the distance.

The base was an old Colmarian Confederation outpost. I could tell because they’d kept the original welcome sign. But at the top where it said “Colmarian Confederation,” they’d widened the billboard and added words. Now it stated this military base belonged to the “Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation.”

A few moments after we had exited my ship, we saw someone running toward us from the connecting walkway tube.

“What do we do?” I asked, reaching down for Gun.

“You won’t need that,” Najosa said.

A PCC Navy clerk came up carrying clipboards. He was out of breath and sweating.

“Forms?” the clerk asked.

Nordan, Meltar, Shella, and Alase, all the non-combat Ontakians, took out wads of paperwork and began exchanging and conversing with the clerk.

The PCC absolutely loved forms. Real forms with stamps and serial numbers and ribbons and seals and signatures and countersignatures and everything in between. I think there were whole solar systems that created new kinds of paper simply to meet the demand.

Each planet in the PCC had its own set of forms that changed constantly. A big planet with lots of exporting could easily have ten thousand forms. And there were billions of member planets in the new PCC.

The old Colmarian Confederation had been a bastion of bureaucracy, but this new PCC put it to shame. Populations starved while food sat just out of reach, awaiting the proper paperwork.

“Do you mind if we begin unloading? I know that will take a while,” Najosa asked the clerk, who was currently neck-deep in red tape.

He nodded and waved us off without even looking.

“Okay, let’s get the cleaning supplies,” she said.

Frank, Najosa, and I were each hauling a large metal drum using a hand truck. I could tell from the sloshing around that it contained some kind of liquid. I didn’t need the hand truck to move the barrel, I was strong enough that I could probably juggle it, even though it weighed hundreds of pounds.

“What’s in these drums?” I asked, as we walked up the tunnel to the main building.

“Water in those two. Weapons in this one,” Najosa said. “We go to the largest facility and take a left. We’re trying to reach an auxiliary power supply.”

“If you know all this, why didn’t you tell me ahead of time?” I asked.

“I said you wouldn’t do it if you knew the details,” Frank answered.

“You were right!”

“See?” Frank stated coolly.

My uncle was so annoying. I honestly think he would sell me if the offer was good enough.

Frank wasn’t his real name. All early generation Ontakians had names that were alpha-numeric, assigned to us when we were slaves of the Rettosians. But most people changed their names when they achieved freedom.

“What do we do if they start shooting?” I asked, as we entered a large structure. It was dome shaped and I saw numerous Navy guards walking around.

“They won’t,” Najosa said, but she didn’t sound absolutely sure.

“What are you worried about? You’re a mutant. I’ve seen you shrug off rockets and bullets and Super Class glocken monsters,” Frank said.

“Doesn’t mean I like it.”

I did have numerous mutations that set me apart from normal Ontakians. I healed wounds very rapidly, even regrowing teeth, eventually. My body was incredibly dense and heavy, able to withstand a tremendous beating. I was also strong, stronger than even my Ontakian brethren. Though my girth left me very underpowered and sluggish compared to them.

But I also had a new mutation. One I didn’t grow up with.

Seven years ago, a god, mutant, legend, Thad Elon had put in place a plan that caused billions of people to be subjected to spontaneous mutation. I personally had the mutation that all ground-based lifeforms dreamed of.

I could fly!

Unfortunately, I think my gift of flight operated under the assumption that I wasn’t nearly so heavy. Like my power was designed for a normal Colmarian. Or a bird.

The best I could do was kind of slowly…not fall. But I usually forgot.

I received the mutation only recently. How often did you remember to fly when you suddenly found yourself tripping down a flight of stairs? It wasn’t exactly instinct.

If I hadn’t eaten anything, and I took off my shoes, and emptied my pockets, I could raise my legs, and kind of hang in the air—until my knees got tired and I touched the ground again.

Basically, I could hover for a few seconds. All in all, it was an exceptionally useless mutation.

I was simply too fat to fly.

As we walked across the base, guards marched back and forth in rigid patrol patterns. This place looked well-fortified and I felt our group was stupendously unprepared.

But as we pushed our water barrels across the floor, not one of the patrols even acknowledged us. Three sketchy Ontakians moving unlabeled steel drums across their secured military base and no one bothered to even look at us.

These were the worst guards ever.

I mean, yeah, they were perfectly coordinated, every swing of the arm, every tap of the rifle. If they were a marching band, they would win top honors.

“Is it me, or are these guys completely ignoring us?” I whispered.

“You could probably walk an army through here and they wouldn’t care. This is the Colmarian Confederation,” Najosa said.

“Well, it’s the PCC,” I corrected.

“They’re the same thing,” she snapped.

We passed squad after squad of fancy-stepping guards. We weren’t sure which way to go because there were about a dozen paths that led off this one circular facility.

Finally, I had the solution.

“Hey, excuse me, which tunnel leads to an auxiliary power supply? We’re delivering cleaning stuff,” I asked two guards.

They stopped. One turned to face me. He clacked his rifle down to his feet, and without looking at me, reported:

“Proceed two hallways ahead counterclockwise.” The guards resumed formation and marched away.

We did as the soldier directed, walking the tunnel for quite a distance. As we neared the end of the hall, in front of us I saw a soldier and a man in civilian clothes, by a large metal door.

I suspected these two would not merely ignore us as we tried to open that big door.

“Cleaning supplies,” Najosa said, as we drew closer.

“Halt! This area is restricted,” the armed guard replied, immediately pointing his rifle at us.

We were about fifteen feet away. The rifle wouldn’t hurt me, probably wouldn’t even hurt Frank or Najosa, but we had a whole military base behind us.

Najosa set down her barrel and began removing the lid.

“Frank,” she said.

Frank stretched out his left hand. I knew from experience that he packed two flamethrowers built into his gauntlets. One a short-distance cone, and the other a long sticky stream.

He held out his left hand and I saw the cone of fire begin to puff out.

But then it was like it hit an invisible wall. The fire projected about four feet and then took a physics-defying turn straight down and hit the floor.

I saw the man in civilian clothes was holding his hands raised toward us.

He then tilted his palms flat and suddenly my face was mashed against the floor.

With enormous effort, I turned to the side and saw Najosa and Frank also on the ground. It was like gravity had increased exponentially. I could barely move.

The barrels fell over and began to sway back and forth on the floor.

The Colmarian soldier who ordered us to halt was faring no better, and was also pressed flat to the ground. But he still had his rifle, and he was trying to aim at us. The metal scraped on the tiling as if it weighed a hundred pounds.

Frank’s flamethrower wasn’t doing anything except burning the spot directly in front of his hand so he switched it off.

The soldier fired his gun, but the bullet dragged across the floor, burrowing into the tiles before it went ten feet from the muzzle.

My arms were out in front of me and felt like they weighed a spaceship apiece. It would take a lot of effort to reach my thigh and take out Gun. And I was reluctant to rely on Gun in situations like these. He tended to ask a lot of questions and not understand the significance of my answers.

Gun also used my bioelectricity to fire, and it always made me tired afterwards. A bad state to be in when I was already struggling to move.

The drums containing water rocked back and forth in front of us like angry pendulums.

The mutant, as that is what he clearly was, continued to stand there with his hands facing downward. He seemed to be in deep concentration. If he ever got around to it, he might sound the alarm, and then we were in for a lot of synchronized boots kicking our prostrate asses.

I reached out to try and touch the water barrel in front of me. I felt like a slug. A slug under a very heavy brick.

I managed to get one hand on the barrel and I nudged it with my fingertips. As I did so, the liquid inside sloshed with the weight of half an ocean.

“What are you doing?” Frank asked, clearly annoyed.

With great effort, I scooted the barrel so that it was lined up with the mutant. I then pushed it as hard as I could.

The drum lurched forward, but then rolled back, and I was worried I might get steamrolled. But it then switched directions and started chugging forward again.

It would rock a half-spin ahead, then a quarter back. Over and over. The gravity was creating massive tidal forces inside the barrel.

The barrel kept going, like a ponderous, perpetual motion machine. The mutant was in his meditative trance and didn’t know what was happening.

The barrel heaved one more turn as I held my breath.

It knocked the mutant flat on his back and immediately gravity returned to normal.

Najosa fired a silenced submachine gun that she retrieved from her weapons barrel. I had not even gotten to my feet yet and the guard and mutant were dead.

“Secure the hall,” Najosa told us.

Frank opened the heavy door and pulled the bodies into the next room.

“I thought there wasn’t going to be any shooting,” I said.

I wasn’t above murder. I had killed a lot of people in my day. But I liked to have a reason. I didn’t even know why I was here other than my shifty uncle had lied about a job.

“You didn’t shoot anyone. I did,” Najosa said.





CHAPTER 4




Once we entered the power supply area and closed the door, I got worried.

I hadn’t panicked when I was mashed against the floor under extreme gravity. But now I had a moment to appreciate our situation. We were in a relatively small room, with two dead PCC guards, on a PCC Navy base. And we had to cross paths with an awful lot of soldiers to reach my ship and get out of here.

“What are we doing?” I asked.

Najosa surveyed the dim room with a flashlight. The depot was only about forty feet in diameter and it was filled with all kinds of piping and industrial cables.

“What are we looking for?” I asked impatiently.

“A power plant,” she said.

I stood there and honestly wondered if Najosa was insane. It was a real possibility. After all, we had just attacked a military base, armed with jugs of water.

“Here,” Frank said.

I walked over and joined Frank and Najosa by a small, what looked like a water heater, maybe four feet tall and two feet in diameter.

Already I was skeptical.

“Are you going to copy the design?” I asked, confused.

“No, we’re going to steal it,” Najosa said.

“Steal a power plant? If we shut off the electricity, we’re going to lose life support. That seems like a bad idea.”

“This is the auxiliary generator. They must have several others for a base of this size,” she said.

Najosa had some diagrams on her tele and she was examining the power plant.

“We need to get out of here. Judging by all those lock-stepping guards we met on the way, a patrol will come by and notice their missing team,” Frank said.

“This is a nucleo-vapor isotopic inducer, not a vacuum cleaner,” Najosa said.

“You brought three combat Ontakians to steal a piece of complicated machinery and you left the technicians at the port,” Frank chided.

“Help me figure out how to disconnect it,” Najosa hissed.

They walked around it, poking and prodding, and it was clear they had no idea what to do.

“This is what we came for?” I asked.

“Yes.”

“Just this?” I tried to confirm.

“Yes,” Najosa repeated.

“I’m no engineer, but it’s bolted to the floor and it has only this giant cable connected to it. Unscrew the bolts and disconnect the cable,” I said.

Najosa stared at me.

“He’s got a point,” Frank said.

“Who is going to carry it out of here?” I asked.

“I can,” Frank said.

“Hank is the strongest and can run with it,” she replied.

“He can’t run at all. I can carry that and crawl faster than him,” Frank replied.

“If Hank gets shot, he won’t drop it. He’s our best chance of us getting it out of here,” she said.

Frank didn’t argue further.

We unbolted the plant and made ready to disconnect the cable. Everyone looked at me.

“Fine, I’ll do it,” I said.

I took hold of the cable and yanked it out.

Thankfully, I didn’t get electrocuted. But the overhead lights changed from a pleasant fluorescent white to blood red.



I carried the power plant over my shoulder. It was big and bulky, but I managed.

As we walked back across the base, the clockwork guards continued to ignore us.

Despite the fact they were bathed in red emergency lights.

“Are they blind?” Frank asked.

“They probably think it’s a drill,” Najosa said.

Still. The fact we had landed a ship, walked in, killed two of their personnel, were now robbing them, and no one even looked at us, underscored the incompetence of the PCC.

As I was thinking this, an alarm went off.

It was a big, “things are really bad,” military alarm. It could probably be heard five planets away.

Frank dropped his hand truck and started running. Then Najosa started running.

I kind of duck-walked after them.

“Wait up,” I called.

Seven years ago, I had been a professional glocken player. That meant I had to run at semi-regular intervals across sports arenas. Since then, I had sworn off running altogether and tried to never go faster than a meandering stroll.

Except in times like these. And then I sorely wished I wasn’t so slow.

Gunfire erupted all around me.

Even their shooting was synchronized. I swear, these guys must do nothing but train all year long. Thirty guns hit me perfectly, blasting the back of my trousers and jacket to smithereens.

But I realized immediately that they were “space guns.” People used a special high-velocity, low caliber weapon on spaceships and space stations like this. It prevented the weapons from doing any damage that might rupture precious life support.

I immediately slowed down.

“What are you doing?” Najosa yelled.

“Those guns can’t hurt me,” I explained. “And this thing is heavy.”

Frank was already out of sight.

“We have to fly out of here, remember? You might be bulletproof, but if they shred your ship, we’re going to have a tough time in outer space.”

Oh, yeah.

I sped back up, but I didn’t think it helped much. From the sound of the guns, they must have all been standing twenty-five feet behind me and using my sizeable butt as target practice.

I was jogging down the final corridor that led to my ship. Najosa had gone on ahead.

I was beginning to worry what would happen if those thirty guns started shooting the Suckface. I had no idea how my ship would stand up to small arms fire. It was technically a military vessel, but it specialized in communications.

I was nearing the exit of the tunnel when Frank stepped out in front of me.

“Move,” he said.

Frank held out his right arm and spewed a stream of napalm from his gauntlet, bathing the tunnel completely in flames.

“Come on,” Najosa said.

I hustled to the ship and boarded. Frank came in a moment later.

The hatch closed and I could vaguely hear bullets pinging against the hull.

“Hold on!” Zzzho said.

I felt the g-force push me down as Zzzho banked the Suckface up and out faster than he had ever flown it before.

After a while of not exploding, everyone calmed down a bit.

We were standing around the power plant I had carried.

“What’s the condition?” Najosa asked.

Meltar and Nordan examined it.

“Got hit by a few bullets, but it didn’t sustain any damage,” Nordan said.

“Yeah, I took all the gunfire,” I grumbled, wiping off the squashed bullets from my backside.

The guys were still fiddling with the device.

“I don’t think we should be messing with a power plant while we’re in space,” I said.

“They know what they’re doing,” Frank said.

“Do you want to see how it works?” Nordan offered me.

“I’ve spent 400 years cracking skulls so I don’t ever have to clean a toilet, sweep a floor, or learn about power generators,” I replied.





CHAPTER 5




I was back home in Belvaille System, which was no longer named Belvaille System.

When the PCC took over, they renamed us. We were now the Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation Portal Depot #4382. Really rolled off the tongue. Our System had exponentially more Portals than the next five highest Systems combined, but we were #4382. No one could tell us why. Probably no one knew.

Portals were what made this System special. They were devices that allowed ships to bridge the vast distances of space almost instantly. Our System was unique in that it could support hundreds of Portals to sectors all over the galaxy.

I lived on the space station Belvaille. The space station was an exact square, fifteen miles by fifteen miles—quite large as far as installations went. The buildings in the city were amazing. During our short economic boom, the nobles of the city had built fantastic mansions of every shape and style.

I owned a five-story building that was a holdover from the city’s original design. It was a boring steel square of sturdy construction.



I had taken leave of my Ontakian passengers, and received a fee of 150,000 credits for my efforts. It wasn’t a bad amount of money considering my expenses were so low. I had no idea how much the power generator was worth, but it’s not like I could do anything with it.

My butler picked me up at the port and drove me home. I didn’t have a limo driver any longer and I didn’t have a limo. It was just a normal car.

My butler was a Dredel Led robot named Cliston, who was smarter than me, faster than me, more proper than me, and probably the best butler in the galaxy. He took 15% of all my earnings and not only ran my household, but a significant portion of my life.

I didn’t understand how Cliston knew so much about etiquette. To me, etiquette was kind of how to eat, dress, bathe, and poop. Basically, all the things that biological organisms did. But Cliston was a robot and did none of them.

Physically, Cliston was black metal with white pinstripes. He had red, glowing eyes, and a speaker grid for a mouth.

“I take it things didn’t go so well, sir?” Cliston asked, gauging my attitude perfectly.

I sat in the front seat next to him so I could have more legroom.

“It didn’t go how I wanted. But I got paid 150 large,” I said.

“I shall deposit it in our petty cash reserves,” he replied.

Not only was Cliston a master practitioner of etiquette, he quite literally wrote the books on it. Cliston had a peculiar habit of producing manuals on the most obscure topics, from gardening, and tablecloths, to how to manage a street sweeping service. He was prolific, and his works were widely appreciated.

I was always a little unclear why Cliston put up with me, especially now that my fortunes had taken such a precarious dip, but at this point, he was not only my butler, but my partner, and most trusted confidant.

When we drove onto my street, I rolled my eyes as usual and contemplated for the billionth time moving to a new location.

About two years ago, a Therezian named Wallow up and died. Therezians were giants, nearly indestructible. Wallow fell over and smashed several buildings and blocked the entire street. You could now only reach my house from one direction.

Wallow and I had not gotten along very well when he was alive, and I wondered if he had tried to die on my building, but missed. In any case, he had not decomposed one iota. He looked like he was merely asleep with his eyes open.

We tried electric saws, torches, guns, explosives, but we couldn’t even scratch his skin. Then we thought, even if we could dice him up, where would we put him? So I now had a dead Therezian as a neighbor and I always had to hang a left to get out of my building.

The population of Belvaille had massively declined since its heyday. Seven years ago, there had been maybe a half-million inhabitants on the space station. Now there were less than fifty thousand residents.

The drop-off came from a law that was enacted early in the PCC that changed the galaxy, and Belvaille, almost immediately. It was called the Source-Destination Doctrine.

It was a bit confusing, but it stated that all products produced on a planet had to be either sold on that planet, or bartered or sold to another planet for the same amount.

So if one planet produced a million credits worth of copper, they could trade it to another planet for a million credits of furniture or a million credits of electronics.

They said this was to promote industry in the galaxy, which had taken a severe beating since the civil war; to make sure the biggest planets were getting adequate trade; and because the PCC’s monetary system wasn’t very solid.

To get products to smaller worlds or space stations like Belvaille, which didn’t really produce anything, they had to file “Surplus Reports.” Then we could get the leftovers.

Belvaille System had been simply a middleman in the past. Our number of Portals made us a logical trade hub. Now, all shipments had to go from the source to the final destination.

It was absurdly inefficient, but it concentrated influence at the planetary level—which was the point. It raised the prices for all goods that came to Belvaille, and made whole categories of products unavailable at any cost.

It wrecked our economy. And everyone left.

Yes, an unbelievable amount of ships still passed through Belvaille System to make use of our Portals, but they didn’t stay long. We provided minor entertainment, fuel, repairs, and replacement crews for the long-haul transports. We were reduced to being a glorified truck stop.

Of course, there were plenty of people who weren’t content with that, so there was an increasing amount of illegal activity as well.

But we had to be unbelievably cautious.

The PCC had a large number of Navy ships sitting right here in our System. They would make sure that all the transports that were using our Portals were also adhering to the copious number of shipping regulations.

I heard that the population on the Navy ships was something like ten times the civilian population on Belvaille. Not to mention the warships were armed with huge cannons and missiles and whatever else.

Many felt it was lunacy to try and turn Belvaille into a criminal port when we were surrounded by so many military police.

I, however, was not one of those people, and felt it was the only way the city could survive.





CHAPTER 6




Entering my home, I noticed I had all new furniture, paintings, and even a few little statues. My building was not especially large, but thanks to Cliston’s expert hands, it was always tasteful.

“Where did this stuff come from?” I asked, knowing that no artwork had landed on Belvaille in years.

Cliston didn’t answer, and that alone struck me as odd. I turned to see if he had run out of batteries or something. Cliston was never caught short.

“Seeing as how so many nobles fled the city, their dwellings were left in a state of…unclear circumstances,” he said delicately.

“You looted the mansions?” I couldn’t believe it. Cliston, the paragon of good robotic breeding, was now a burglar. I needed a drink. Hopefully some of Cliston’s excellent homebrew was ready.

“I wouldn’t say looted, sir. The owners could have taken their possessions, but they abandoned them, leaving no definitive title of ownership. While you were away, I attempted to inquire with the authorities.”

“You talked to Police Chief MTB?” I asked.

“Yes, sir. He said I could take anything, but not make a mess. I know other people have used this opportunity to move into the vacant mansions. We might consider doing that as well.”

“What’s the point in living in a thirty-story empty building? I have to imagine it’s hard enough keeping this place clean,” I said.

At one point I had all kinds of servants. Maybe a dozen. Now it was only Cliston.

“I get by fine, sir. Would you care for some food?” he asked, knowing my weakness.

“Absolutely. I’ve been eating nothing but space junk for weeks.”

As part of my mutation, I ate a lot. That cannot be overstated. I had to eat a special formula that Delovoa, who lived two stories up from me, prepared. But Cliston cooked it into amazing meals.

As I ate, I stared at a new painting on my wall that was kind of three-dimensional. I got the feeling something symbolic was going on, but I couldn’t figure out what. Although Cliston didn’t explicitly talk down to me or try and eliminate my rough ways, I think he hoped to enlighten me through osmosis. So he constantly surrounded me with high-class artwork.

“Sir, I know you like to book your own assignments, but I may have a job for you,” Cliston said.

“Oh? The Butlers’ Union need me to track down some shoe polish?” I joked.

“No, sir. But my people contacted me to ask for a suitable applicant.”

“Your people? Is there really such a thing as a Butlers’ Union?”

“Not that I’m aware of, sir. But I’m referring to my species, the Dredel Led.”

“What would a bunch of robots want with me?” I asked, not particularly interested. The Dredel Led were halfway across the galaxy and I didn’t see they had much to offer.

“It isn’t you, specifically. They need help in this region of space and they know I am here.”

“You all keep tabs on each other? That’s creepy.”

“It is voluntary, sir, but yes.”

“How much does this job pay?” I asked.

“The pay rate is 5,000 nasho particle deflationary devices.”

“What the hell is that? I need money, Cliston. What am I going to do with a bunch of Dredel Led spare parts? Build an army?”

“They are quite valuable, sir. But I recognized you might not be interested in that. The Dredel Led do have foreign currency reserves they can also offer.”

“How much?”

“The payment would be on successful completion of the mission, but I am authorized to offer you fifty million.”

“Fifty million credits?” I asked.

“Yes, sir.”

I fell to my knees and raised my hands to the ceiling.

“I love the Dredel Led!”

“You haven’t heard what the assignment is, sir.”

“I don’t care if I have to mud wrestle a black hole. Fifty million! I just attacked a military base and only made 150 grand. Tell them I’ll take the job.”

I could buy the whole space station with that much money. Though I’m not sure who would sell it. No one really owned it. Garm, my old girlfriend, owned it at one point. But that was several empires ago.

“Wait, are you getting paid for setting up this deal?” I asked Cliston.

“I get 15% of what you make, as your butler, and yes, I’m getting paid to negotiate this deal,” he said.

“You’re making more than me, aren’t you?”

“I don’t see how that should be a concern, sir.”

“I knew it! I should be getting 15% of what you make,” I said, folding my arms.

“If you’re unhappy with our arrangement, we could renegotiate our terms,” he replied.

I looked at him. He had no expressions so I couldn’t guess what he was thinking. Cliston already had control over my home furnishings, my wardrobe, my meals, anyone I hired, and just about every other aspect of my life other than when I was allowed to go to the bathroom.

“No. I think I’m okay. So what are the mission details?”

“Someone or something from this System is hacking into the Dredel Led capital city.”





CHAPTER 7




The specifics of the Dredel Led assignment would be forthcoming once my signed contract had been executed.

In the meantime, I had other work to do. I set up today’s meeting months ago and I had been preparing ever since.

“I followed your instructions and sent out invitations to those on your list,” Cliston said.

“Good. I’ve been practicing my speech while I was away.”

Cliston dressed me in the outfit he had designed for this special event.

“Someone is going to try and hit on me,” I said sourly.

I was essentially wearing a really fancy woman’s frock. There were lots of lace and poofs and frills.

“This is very masculine attire. Fashion is constantly evolving, sir.”

“Not on Belvaille. Why can’t I wear a suit? My crotch feels breezy.”

“You want to project power and prestige. This is a royal Meekad Glory ensemble,” Cliston said.

“I’m going to talk to a bunch of lowlifes who were too stupid to leave this System. They’re going to see me in a ball gown and laugh at me.”

“They know you and your abilities. I can assure you, no one will laugh, sir.”

“Why do you always make me wear stupid clothes when you’re naked except for your pinstripes?” I challenged.

“I could wear clothes if you like,” Cliston said.

I thought about making Cliston wear a dress, but I wasn’t that petty. Besides, he would probably end up looking prettier than me.



I was standing around on the fifth floor of The Club, waiting for the people Cliston invited to show up.

The Club used to be called the Belvaille Gentleman’s Club. Then the Belvaille Athletic Gentleman’s Club. Then the Belvaille Gentleman’s Club again. Then someone stole the “man’s” off the sign and it was the Gentle Club. Then two letters fell off and it was the Gent Club.

Now there were no more letters to steal and it was just the frame that said “The,” a big blank space, and “Club.” It worked, because we were frankly tired of keeping track of the building’s ever-changing name.

This was an important meeting and one I thought would decide the future of not only myself, but everyone left in this System who didn’t work for the Navy.

There were about 400 people in the room so far and it was hot and cramped and people were uncomfortable.

So far, Cliston was right. My gaudy skirt seemed to have shocked people into silence. I saw them staring, some with open mouths, but they were too confused to actually comment.

Looking at the group, they were a sorry lot. Seven years ago, there would be jewels and fine clothes and imperious attitudes on display in The Club. That was all gone and now these people were a good sample of those that remained in the city.

They were quick and conniving enough to scratch out a living on what was left of Belvaille. I liked them, because all of them could, and would, get their hands dirty.

There were three people in the room who were given a fair amount of space, despite the close quarters.

One was Procon Hobb, who was sitting in the corner. The nobles had mostly departed Belvaille and those that stayed were just normal people now. But Procon Hobb still owned a solar system or two; he was an eight-foot-tall, frog-lizard thing who looked like he could rip you apart if he chose; and he was a mutant with the ability to speak in your head and read your thoughts. He was intimidating on a lot of levels.

Another person afforded a respectable gap was Xandale. Xandale had been a rival of mine and tried to kill me some years ago. But when our entire System was mutated, Xandale had been at ground zero. Skinny, weak, Xandale was now a professional enforcer. I felt I owed him payback for trying to kill me, but it could wait until I figured out what his mutations were.

Xandale had slits for a nose, and red, scaly skin. He would have looked truly malevolent if it weren’t for his teeth. Xandale’s mouth was filled with giant herbivore teeth. His lips were permanently parted, which made it look like he was forever smiling.

The last person who was avoided, and given more than a few dirty looks, was MTB. MTB was one of the holdover police officers left on the station. He and I went back a long way. He was a big guy with a square jaw, who did everything by the book, even though the book had long since been flushed down the toilet.

It took a while longer for everyone to arrive, but when we were all here, I took the microphone to speak.

“Okay, I using a tele jammer. But everyone turn off your teles so this meeting isn’t recorded,” I said.

It took an hour for everyone to finally turn off all their teles. People were really agitated after the wait.

“Fine, fine, quiet. I have a proposal that I think can turn things around for Belvaille, but we have to work together,” I said.

Lots of grumbles at that.

“We all know ships come through here. A lot of ships. And we can still make money selling them fuel, or giving them a place to stretch their legs, or tightening a few loose screws here or there. But because this space station doesn’t manufacture anything, we can’t trade. Not with planets. Not directly. We get all the leftover backwash marked up 1000%. But you all know there is a way we can make money off those ships. It’s why I specifically invited you here.”

“You’re talking about the Skim?” Podiver Vance asked. Podiver Vance was a spindly, nine-foot-tall man who looked more spaghetti than person. He was an excellent businessman, though.

“Yes. The Skim. A ship lands here for…whatever reason. It’s carrying maybe ten thousand tons of coal, and when it undocks, some of that coal is missing. Not enough to alert those warships out there that we have illegally taken goods in violation of the Source-Destination Doctrine, but enough that we can resell it.”

“So what does this have to do with cooperation? Some people here are probably already skimming,” said one guy who I knew was already skimming.

“The deal is, everyone is skimming different amounts, doing it in different styles, and selling it in different methods. We can’t do that. Eventually, someone will get caught. There are like a hundred or so warships out there in space. The only reason the Navy hasn’t taken over this station is because they don’t feel like it. If they get annoyed at us, it will take them five seconds to land a few ships. If they’re nice, they’ll let us leave before they take over.”

“So what are you proposing?” Xandale asked.

“Not many of you were here when Belvaille was originally a criminal outpost on the ass of the old Colmarian Confederation. But we made a lot of money back then. The most important thing was staying out of sight.”

“Kind of hard when we’re surrounded by Portals and PCC Navy,” someone yelled from the back.

“We just got to be smart. I worked with Delovoa—”

A lot more groans at his name. Delovoa was an admittedly brilliant scientist, but he was also a creepy sociopath who had conducted experiments on the population here for years. He was not well liked.

“We ran some numbers. 2%. That is the amount we found that ships could safely be skimmed without being detected. Think about the number of ships that pass through here. Think about the cargo. 2% of all that. But there have to be rules. Cliston.”

Cliston stepped forward and began passing out papers.

“We have to read all this?” a gang boss asked.

“Come on, it’s one page. Those are the Rules of the Skim,” I said.

MTB raised his hand.

“Yes?”

“So you want these to be laws?” he asked.

“No. These are informal agreements. Everyone has to sign off or the Skim won’t work.”

“And what are you going to do in the Skim, Hank?” Xandale asked suspiciously.

“I’ll do what I always do: negotiate. Someone has to talk to the crew, the Navy, the buyers, the forgers, the information brokers. Also, if I know anything about crooks, and I do, you guys will start trying to kill or rob from each other sooner or later. We can’t have that. I’ll work to see that we don’t.”

“Why would you wish to speak to the Navy?” I heard my inner voice say to me.

That was Procon Hobb. When he used his telepathic abilities, it sounded like your own inside voice was talking to you against your will.

The room grew nervous because most people had not experienced Procon Hobb hijacking their brains.

“Procon Hobb, that is a good question. The Navy is the most important piece of this. We have to keep supplying them with entertainment on this station. Keep doing repairs and selling fuel. But we can’t ever piss them off. We can kill each other all we want, but no one from the Navy can get a bloody lip,” I said.

“Some of those guys raise hell when they come into my casino,” an owner said.

“I know. Do what you got to do. But if sailors start leaving Belvaille worse than they arrived, we won’t last long.”

I could see a lot more arguments were about to be raised, so I cut them off.

“Look, out there in space is something called a battlecruiser. It is commanded by one of the leaders of the PCC Navy. His title is…nothing. He has none. He’s simply called Mr. Boshe, because the paperwork for his job transfer hasn’t come through—for three years. He hasn’t even gotten paid yet. That is the PCC. That is the mindless bureaucracy that happens to be wielding a couple hundred thousand heavy cannons on our front doorstep. They could accidentally destroy us and not even notice. Don’t give them a reason to do it on purpose,” I said.

“So if we agree to this, what are the next steps?” Podiver Vance asked.

“To make the Skim happen, we got a lot of work to do.”





CHAPTER 8




Cliston gave me the details of my contract with the Dredel Led.

“You’re joking,” I said, as I scanned the tele message.

I was currently at page 84 and the end was nowhere in sight.

“Did you look over this, Cliston?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Good, then give me the highlights. By the time I read it I’ll be too old to do anything.”

“The capital of the Dredel Led is called Thaxmultaerea. It isn’t a physical location. It is a shared electronic environment of the Dredel Led that can be accessed from anywhere. Apparently, someone or something from this System is illegally connecting to Thaxmultaerea.”

“So like…they’re using teles?” I asked.

“No, sir. It would require significant computer equipment, well beyond the technology that a tele possesses.”

“It’s probably Delovoa,” I said. “He’s always doing stuff like this.”

“If that is true, he needs to stop. Thaxmultaerea is never supposed to be accessed by unauthorized individuals. It is possible for biological organisms to visit, but they need permission.”

“Visit? How would someone visit an electronic city?”

“The apparatus isn’t hard to construct. Getting access is what’s difficult. Non-Dredel Led aren’t allowed in very often.”

“Have you been there?”

“Of course, sir. Many times. It’s where I was born—at least my consciousness. It’s where all Dredel Led come from.”

“That’s heavy. But I’m starting to have second thoughts on this. How am I supposed to find this person? Assuming it isn’t Delovoa. I can’t go around punching every computer in the System. What if the Navy is doing it?”

“It’s a fifty-million-credit reward if you can stop them.”

“Yeah, I’m having second thoughts about my second thoughts. That is a lot of money. How would they pay me? Would I have to fly all the way out there?”

“My people are an advanced species. We do have access to electronic banking, sir.”

“Oh, right. Do you have any more information on who is doing it?”

“Yes. They have a frequency and modulation and carrier signal of the violating connection.”

“You’re talking a foreign language to me. I was hoping for like a physical description of the person.”

“That is a description, sir. It’s a description of the device or devices that are attacking.”

“Oh. Well, give it to me and I’ll go upstairs and talk to Delovoa. This might be a quick payday for us.”

“Do you have any plans on what to do with the money? Assuming you are successful.”

“I don’t know anything that remotely costs that much. Could I buy a planet? Call it Hankland. Or Suckville,” I said.

“I do not think you could afford a planet, sir. Unless it was a very inhospitable one.”

“I don’t know, Cliston. You’re my money manager, think of something cool to buy.”

“Might I suggest investing some money for a change, sir?”

“You mean like, buying a whole lot of food?”

“No, sir. I mean index funds, derivatives, stocks, bonds, insurance.”

“Cliston, you know that for almost my whole life I’ve lived on Belvaille?”

“Yes, sir.”

“And during that time, over hundreds of years, I have operated in the…criminal world, for lack of a better description.”

“Yes, sir.”

“And I’ve done pretty well. I mean, I’ve been rich. I’ve been poor. But in each case, I knew why and how and what I was doing.”

“Yes, sir. I believe so.”

“So why should I dump a bunch of money into things I don’t know the first thing about?”

“There is quite a lot to be made in legitimate enterprise. You could learn, sir.”

“I could learn to become a ballerina with enough lessons, but there’s only so much time in the galaxy. So when I say think of stuff to buy, I mean things that a hoodlum like me would want.”

“Understood, sir.”



Delovoa lived on the third floor of my building, and he had storage on the fourth and fifth floors.

Delovoa was one of my best friends, which always made me sad when I thought about it. He was a scientist of tremendous intellect who had given himself multiple sets of refurbished bodies because the old ones wore out. His new body was an absolute nightmare.

He was now a tall man, broad of shoulder, and had muscles in places where no muscles should be.

But, like most of Delovoa’s work, his new body was a testament to his overall lack of planning and common sense. Despite his size, Delovoa was weaker than a normal person because his muscles all pushed and pulled in seemingly arbitrary directions.

He was monstrous, not just because of his strange configuration, but because his body had been cobbled together with parts taken from unsuspecting porn stars and gang members. His face had three eyes straight across his forehead that looked and blinked independently. He had a huge pig nose that oozed snot. His enormous mouth was lined with metal teeth. His skull was enlarged and misshapen to accommodate his three brains. And all over his body, there were gashes, metal plates, wires, and zippers, which perpetually leaked every kind of fluid you could think of, and a few you couldn’t.

“So let me get this straight, you want me to help you find who is hacking into the Dredel Led virtual city?” Delovoa asked in his filthy living room.

“That’s right. Unless you’re the one doing it. And if you are, you need to stop, because they’re pissed.”

“Of course they’re pissed. Which is why I would never do it, even if I had the knowledge or capability. Last thing I want is the Dredel Led angry with me. I’ve seen what they can do.”

“You promise it’s not you?” I asked skeptically.

“Cross my hearts,” he said, drawing several Xs on his chest.

“Here are the specifics,” I said, handing him my tele with the information.

“First things first, how much are you paying me? I know you aren’t doing this for free.”

“I’ll give you 50,000 credits if we stop them.”

“That’s pretty good. I’ll just buy my food and supplies on credit? I need money now if you want me to go zipping around the System.”

“Who said we have to zip anywhere?”

“How do you think they are hacking? We have to look around for signs of it.”

“Can’t you just check wires and stuff?”

Delovoa pinched his slimy nose in annoyance.

“Are you asking me if there are cables running from here, halfway across the galaxy, to Dredel Led territory? Think about that a second. If there were wires snaked across outer space, they wouldn’t need your help, they could just unplug them.”

“I don’t know how this stuff works, that’s why I’m talking to you.”

“Fifty grand up front and a hundred if we finish,” he said.

“I don’t have that much money. I mean I do, but I’d go broke. How about I give you 1% of what I’m making?”

“How much are you making?”

“Nothing, unless I can stop the hack.”

“Okay, how much if you do stop it?”

I paused.

“Fifty million.”

Delovoa started slapping me.

“You cheap, dirty bastard! You were going to give me fifty grand?”

“Quit it. Do you want the contract or not? That’s 500 large on completion. You can buy three new eyeballs.”

“Not on Belvaille. Body parts are hard to find here at any price,” he replied seriously.

“Are you in?” I asked.

“I want 3% and I want Cliston to sign and approve the contract. I know he won’t cheat me—unlike you.”

“2% and ten K up front. That way you got some money for supplies and won’t ask me for a loan.”

Delovoa rubbed his lower jaw back and forth, making a horrible noise as his metal teeth ground into each other.

“Okay, deal.”

“So how do we do this? I don’t know where to start,” I said.

“First off, there are only a few dozen places that could make a signal that strong. The larger Navy ships, Belvaille’s telescopes, and maybe some of the freighters. I’ll build a scanner and we can hop in your ship and try and intercept the transmission.”

“Will that stop it?”

“No, just show us where it’s coming from. Then you can go down and tell them to suck their faces and we get paid.”

“Yeah, what if it’s a PCC warship?”

“It probably is. I can’t think why anyone else would want to hack into the Dredel Led. No one around here would care, but the Navy would.”

“That’s just great. So how can I stop their computers from hacking?”

Delovoa shrugged.

“A sledgehammer?”





CHAPTER 9




A month passed and things were going well.

Delovoa was building the device that would detect the Dredel Led hackers. It was slow going because Belvaille didn’t have ready access to hi-tech parts and equipment, so Delovoa had to cannibalize his other inventions or scavenge the city.

As for preparations for the Skim, everyone was using their resources to try and turn Belvaille into a professional, galactic-wide embezzler.

We couldn’t afford to half-ass it or kick off things before we were ready, so most illegal activities had been suspended by mutual agreement.

I got a tele from Garm, asking me to meet her at one of the telescopes.

Belvaille had nearly its whole northern side dominated by massive telescopes that we used to regulate spaceship traffic. Delovoa had hinted they might be what was used to hack Thaxmultaerea.

Garm was a member of the elite Quadrad assassins. The Quadrad had been based in Belvaille at one point, but when the System emptied, the Quadrad left. Not many people were left to assassinate, and the ones that were, couldn’t afford the cost.

I once dated Garm—and her granddaughter—for a short while.

Garm was deadly and beautiful, not necessarily in that order. She was a mutant and didn’t need to sleep. She was beyond devious, and always scheming. I wasn’t sure why she stayed in Belvaille, she loved money and power more than all those rich nobles who quit the city.

Pulling open the door to the telescope facility, I was startled by how much noise greeted me. There were people hustling about, operating the equipment with what seemed like a high level of competency. I could tell straight away these people weren’t natives of Belvaille. They moved with too much purpose and concentration.

Stepping inside, I noticed everyone was wearing the same style of dark clothes.

In the middle of the room, on a raised platform, I saw Garm with her back to me. She turned around and I recognized she was wearing a PCC Navy uniform!

“Hank, come back here. Stop being a baby,” Garm called after me.

I was storming away, full of ire.

“I don’t have time for this.” She took a few quick hops and was in front of me.

“You joined the Navy? Are you insane?” I said.

“Come into my office,” she answered.

I did so begrudgingly, but I also wanted answers.

“You’re an assassin!” I said, when she closed the door.

“I didn’t do a whole lot of assassinating with the Quadrad. I was more into acquisitions.”

“Whatever,” I said.

“I’ve been in the Navy before, remember?”

“That was the Colmarian Confederation and like 800 years ago. You were young and stupid,” I said.

“It wasn’t nearly that long ago.”

“Why would you want to join the PCC?” I asked.

“A paycheck? Advancement? You realize this city is just about dead, right? I’m not trained in refueling transports, or spot-welding armor patches, and I’d make a horrible bar maid. That means I have no job opportunities in Belvaille.”

“Yeah, your customer service sucks,” I grumbled. “What’s your title?”

She took a deep breath.

“Adjunct Overwatch.”

I almost blew a blood vessel.

“That’s the same title you had in the Colmarian Confederation!”

Garm crossed her arms and seemed sorry for me, but not surprised.

“Wait, why did you ask me here? To brag about being a lackey?” I asked.

“We’re running the port and telescopes,” she said.

“What?” I asked, not understanding.

“The Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation Navy is in control of Belvaille’s port and telescopes,” she clarified.

“Says who?”

“Says 432 warships,” she answered.

“Wow, that many? Is that what your boss tells you?”

“Who?”

“The guy on the battlecruiser who runs things.”

“Mr. Boshe?” she asked.

“That is so moronic. You have a better title than he does.”

“They’re working on it. He has to answer directly to Parliaments. That’s a lot of planets who have to agree. For my commission, it was just a simple form. Well, a bunch of forms, but still.”

“Of course, because the PCC has to have their forms,” I said, throwing up my hands. “Why are you telling me this?”

“Because, if you were to do anything illegal near the port, it would be bad.”

“Like, what do you mean bad?” I asked.

“We’re going to have a lot of people at the port. People who know how to repair warships. And people who know how to refuel them. And guards for those people. If they see a bunch of heavy lifters, I don’t know, skimming from transports, they will get suspicious,” she said.

“Holy crap,” I said, realizing the Skim might be in jeopardy.

“Look, the Navy doesn’t care about the stupid people on this stupid station,” she said. “They care about keeping their ships in order. They need Belvaille’s port for that. They need the telescopes for…well, that’s classified. But if you break the Source-Destination Doctrine right in front of a bunch of soldiers, they’re going to notice.”

“Are you guys hacking Thaxmultaerea?” I asked point-blank.

“What is that?”

“Are you using the telescopes to hack the Dredel Led.”

“Did you have an aneurism or are you saying random words?” she replied.

“You know what I mean.”

“I don’t. Honestly.”

“You said what you’re doing with the telescopes is classified. Are you using them to hack into the Dredel Led capital?”

“The Dredel Led have a capital?”

“Don’t change the subject.”

“I don’t understand what the subject is. What are you asking?”

“What are you using the telescopes for?”

“You know what ‘classified’ means, right? But if it makes you feel any better, I don’t know what you’re talking about.”

“How about a partition?”

“With the Dredel Led?” she asked, confused.

“No, I’m talking about the port. Create a Navy side, surrounded by walls. You can keep all your Navy gear there and special Navy fuel and have your own little crew quarters and barracks and not let any of us normal people inside. Of course, it will have the dual effect of putting blinders up so you can’t tell what we’re doing.”

“I can’t see how anyone would go for that,” she said.

“You already inspect some of the ships when they enter the System. You inspect some of the ships when they leave the System. Do you need to inspect them when they’re docked here? You want to keep your people and gear safe, right? You don’t want anyone stealing your tools,” I said.

She considered it.

“I can’t propose this. If you can get sign-off, I’ll agree it’s a good idea, but it can’t come from me.”

“What is your role here?” I asked.

“I run the port and the telescopes,” she said simply.

“Then it should totally come from you. Why would it come from me?”

“Think of a reason. Give yourself a title like…Master Overseer of Navy and Belvaille Relations, or something.”

“But you’re already Navy. They’ll listen to you. No one will care about me.”

“Do you remember what I used to do here when I was Adjunct Overwatch the first time?” she asked.

“Sort of. You were a criminal who worked for the Navy.”

She sighed.

“I looked the other way. In exchange for some…consideration. There is a big difference between that and actively deceiving my superiors. I can always feign ignorance and claim deniability. I won’t give that up to protect you scumbags,” she said.

“Okay. Who do I have to talk to about partitioning the port?”

“Mr. Boshe, of course.”





CHAPTER 10




“Is their gun operator drunk?” I asked.

I was in the cockpit of the Suckface, sitting next to Zzzho. He could sort of scooch over his cloudness so I wouldn’t inhale him. I had breathed Zzzho before, and while it kind of hypercharged my brain, I didn’t altogether enjoy it.

We were flying toward Mr. Boshe’s battlecruiser, the Armage.

The ship had been under construction when the Colmarian Confederation civil war broke out. When the war was over, they took parts from destroyed ships to finish the Armage. Its weapons were from wrecked battleships of stupendous size. The ship’s original name was going to be “Armageddon,” but they never finished putting the letters on.

The Armage only had five cannons total, but each was about the length of the entire ship itself. The guns all had unique orientations, which is why I asked if whoever was controlling them was drunk or maybe had a seizure.

“They can’t point the guns all the same way. See? They’re too big and they don’t fit properly on that ship,” Zzzho replied.

He was right. The whole thing kind of looked like an insect with incredibly long, thick legs, resting on its back.

My ship approached, and we waited for docking privileges.

Zzzho told them who we were, who he was, who my ship was, who Belvaille was, our best friends, hobbies, and favorite colors.

Finally, they allowed us to dock with the Armage.

I was used to Belvaille. Belvaille’s port was actually quite good. But to board the Armage, I had to open the front hatch and crawl on my hands and knees through a flexible tube that stretched out into space. I was exhausted at the end and covered in sweat. It was a very uneasy feeling, crawling from one spaceship to another.

I had been on Navy ships before. Not PCC Navy but Colmarian Navy.

If anything, the PCC looked to be even more absurd.

I saw one soldier take a large trashcan and simply dump it from a height of two stories. The trash fell down where other soldiers swept it up. It’s like it didn’t occur to anyone they could maybe skip a step and just empty the original trashcan.

Once I was on the ship, an argument broke out amongst the crew on how to handle me.

It seemed they only had certain classifications of passengers: refugees, diplomats, crew, PCC Navy, prisoners, and officials. I didn’t fit any of their checkboxes, so they didn’t know how to take me to Mr. Boshe.

One suggested I could go back to my ship and say it was malfunctioning and then they could take me on board as a refugee.

“If I punch you, would that help?” I asked sarcastically.

“Then we could take you into custody,” one of the soldiers answered seriously.

“What if I just snuck to Mr. Boshe? You tell me where he is and look away, and I’ll tiptoe over there.”

They stared at me like I was stupid.

“We’ve already processed your arrival documentation. You should have suggested that earlier.”

Thankfully, I was saved when a voice came on the intercom.

“Escort the recently arrived personage, Hank, to Mr. Boshe.”

“Oh, he’s a ‘personage,’” one of the soldiers stated.

“That’s a whole other section,” another explained.



Mr. Boshe was not what I was expecting. I had seen Generals and big shots before, and they were self-important military men with more medals than clothes.

Mr. Boshe was a small, balding man, who needed a shave. He wore tattered pants, a dirty shirt, and was barefoot.

“You’re looking at my feet,” he said.

“I…no. But isn’t the floor cold?” I asked.

“I can feel when the engines aren’t running properly, when the pipes aren’t flowing, when my crew is being lazy.”

“You have sensitive feet, sir.”

“I’m no sir. I’m merely a volunteer at the moment. How can we help the people of Belvaille?”

I stood in his office, which was maybe three times the size of my bathroom at home. And not even my good bathroom. There were no windows. Just lots and lots and lots of papers stacked everywhere.

“I’d like to talk to you about the port,” I said. “I am the official Master Overseer of Navy and Belvaille Relations.”

“Excellent,” Mr. Boshe said, making note of that in his tele. “I would offer you a chair, but from what I’ve read, you’re far too heavy for them.”

That got me a little nervous.

“You’re wondering how I know about you?” he asked, catching my reaction. “The Historians of this System have been incredibly helpful to me.”

Oh, no. The Historians were a weird bunch of guys—and gal—who lived way out in deep space. They collected all the data from our society, including tele transmissions, so that we would never lose record of our past in case of a calamity. Such as another civil war. I had traded them information before, and they must have a tremendous amount of incriminating references about me.

“You can’t believe everything you read, sir—er, Mr. Boshe.”

“Their portrait of you was highly flattering. You’ve done quite a lot of remarkable things in defense of this System, and even our empire.”

“Maybe some of it’s true,” I hedged.

“I’m glad you’ve been sent to speak with us, as a matter of fact. This System is of great strategic significance to the Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation.”

I couldn’t help rolling my eyes at the full name spoken out loud. This meeting could easily go on for days if he kept doing that.

“We have the most Portals,” I said.

“Yes. It is why we are going to be keeping our Navy here for the foreseeable future,” he replied.

“What? I thought this was just temporary.”

“The PCC is vast. Not quite as large as the original Colmarian Confederation, but it’s getting there. And it may even exceed the boundaries of that former empire. But we do not have the ships to protect it. If we leave our Navy here, we can quickly respond to any threat by using the Portals.”

“Oh,” I said, worried. “My concern is that your fleet may disrupt transport operations.”

“Why would you care? Belvaille is not a major trade port. Not even a minor one,” he said.

“Um, no, not trade. But we do sell repairs, and crews, and fuel. It’s one of our only businesses. We don’t want that interrupted.”

“Why would we interrupt it?”

That was a good question.

“Let me rephrase, I’m worried about us interrupting your work.”

He looked slightly irritated.

“And why would the non-citizens of Belvaille be interfering with the affairs of Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation Navy staff?”

I shrugged helplessly.

“Who knows? But what if it happens? What if some drunk guys go to the wrong berth at the port? Or drive a heavy lifter to the wrong ship?”

“We’d stop and arrest them,” he replied flatly.

“Right. But think of it like a military base on a planet. You wouldn’t just leave it open and let people walk around and then arrest them if they got too close. You’d put up a fence to keep them out. The Belvaille port is massive. The warehouses are massive. And they’re all complex and confusing. I’m saying, give the PCC—the Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation—Navy their own section, and fence it off. Keep out non-authorized people.”

He pursed his lips while he thought about it.

“If you think this will help efficiency, then draw up a plan, and I will authorize it,” he said.

“Thank you, Mr. Boshe.”

“I noticed you own a warship,” he said.

“It’s not much of a warship. It’s an old corvette I’m told.”

“Yes. I served in the original Colmarian Navy. That ship was around back when I was in the service. Why don’t you have any weapons on it?”

I didn’t know if he was baiting me.

“Are weapons legal?”

“They aren’t illegal. At least not in this System, since you aren’t technically a citizen.”

“So how does that work? Our city not being in the PCC, I mean.”

“We have claimed all the Portals as our property. As well as certain assets in the city. And we have a right to claim everything else. But no one who is a native is a citizen.”

I shook my head.

“Okay. Well, I’ll get to work on that proposal. It was great talking to you,” I said.

“Do you mind if I see your pistol?” he asked casually.

I was carrying Gun. I handed him to Mr. Boshe.

“Please be careful. He’s very dangerous,” I said.

“Hi, Gun,” Mr. Boshe said.

“Hello. Who are you?” Gun answered pleasantly.

“No one important. Can you tell me if Hank ever lies?” Mr. Boshe asked and I immediately grew alarmed.

“I am not sure if Hank exists and even if he does, whether there is such a thing as a lie or truth. Might they not be different perceptions in the same reality?”

Mr. Boshe smiled and handed back Gun.

“Those Rettosians. Figures they would design an artificial intelligence that was annoying,” he said.



It had been centuries since I was neck-deep in the Colmarian Confederation bureaucracy. But its peculiarities flooded back to me after my exposure to the PCC on board the Armage.

People complained all the time about their local governments and the headaches they caused. But the old Colmarian Confederation had been nearly the size of the entire galaxy. It was so incompetent it was deadly.

But it squeaked by not just because of its sheer size, but because for every million or so mindless drones doing their best to make the universe a confounding place, there was someone who actually knew what the hell they were doing. If that person was placed high enough, they prevented the wholesale collapse of the government and managed to get a few things done now and then.

I got the sense that Mr. Boshe was one of those people.

He might be in command of morons and report to morons, but I knew I had to watch what I said in front of him because he was no fool.

I was happy to leave his ship and get out of his scrutiny.





CHAPTER 11




“A Ms. Najosa came by to see you while you were away, sir,” Cliston said when I returned home.

“I don’t think she’s a Ms., Cliston,” I answered.

“Excuse me, sir. I thought I recognized what was female anatomy with 97% accuracy. But there are indeed quite a few species I am not familiar with, so I may be mistaken.”

“No, I don’t mean she’s a man or anything…” I looked at Cliston. His blank red eyes stared back. “Never mind. What did she say?”

“You were invited to attend a social gathering tomorrow night. I have the address.”

“Did she say what it was about? Is it a job?”

“I got the distinct impression you were being asked out on a date. Though I can decline if Najosa isn’t in fact a female. Or I can accept, of course.”

“No, Cliston, she’s a she. Did she say it was a date? Use that word specifically?”

“No, sir. But I have written numerous articles on the mating rituals and procedures of biological organisms which allows—”

“Fine,” I said, cutting him off. “What do you think I should wear?”

“May I inquire if you have any interest in this person sexually?” he asked.

“I’m not sure about all that. She’s got good bone structure. Just think of an outfit that is hip. A bit intimidating, but not frightening,” I said.

“You have put on a little weight, sir.”

“Why are you telling me that now? Way to mess with my confidence, Cliston.”

“I’ve been telling you for several years, sir. I keep making alterations to your wardrobe and materials are in short supply on Belvaille. It is one reason I venture into the empty buildings. I take fabric from the carpets and drapes and tablecloths to use in your clothing.”

“Well, try and make me look less fat,” I said, as I ate my lunch.

“You could wear loose-fitting robes,” Cliston said.

Cliston swore up and down he was not capable of sarcasm, but I wasn’t sure I believed him.

“I’m not going to wear robes. Just give me some normal clothes.”

“By tomorrow? I’m afraid I do not have enough material left.”

“Dammit, Cliston, I’m not that fat. I’m just bulky.”

“I will do my best, sir.”

“Did Najosa look good to you? As far as you could tell?”

Cliston paused.

“Judging by your past female relationships, she is, as they say, ‘your type,’ sir.”

“Nice.”

“By the way. I would like to request some time off in the weeks ahead.”

I almost spit out my food.

“You’ve never taken time off, Cliston. You going to get a new paint job?”

“This is not paint, sir.”

“Are you asking for a vacation?”

“Yes, sir. I need to vote in the upcoming Dredel Led election, so I have to visit our capital, Thaxmultaerea.”

“While it’s being hacked? Is that dangerous?”

“No, sir. It’s quite safe. And hopefully I might be able to get more information about your mission while I’m there.”

“How long are you going to be gone? Won’t it take you months to reach Dredel Led space?”

“I won’t be ‘gone’ per se. I will still be here physically, but I will be accessing the capital remotely. If there is an emergency, I can always return, but I haven’t visited for quite some time.”

“Well, that’s okay, then. Elections. Who is running for office? Do you have a president? Or head computer? Free electricity for everyone?”

“Our elections don’t quite work like that. We evaluate the consciousness and experiences of all the Dredel Led and use that to make decisions. Though on major issues we still vote.”

“Wow. How many Dredel Led are there?”

“I believe approximately ten million.”

“Ten million planets or Systems?”

“Ten million individual Dredel Led, sir.”

I stopped eating and looked at Cliston.

“That can’t be right. Did a bunch of you die of old age or something? You were at war with the Colmarian Confederation for thousands of years. We had billions of planets. We should have crushed you.”

“Forgive me, sir, but I don’t believe the Colmarian Confederation was very skilled at making war.”

“Or anything else,” I mumbled.





CHAPTER 12




For my date with Najosa, I wore a suit that Cliston had put together. It was dark green with a white tie and a thick cummerbund that tried, and failed, to cover my belly.

I also had some glass flowers that Cliston made. You couldn’t dream of getting real flowers on Belvaille, but these looked quite nice.

I decided to practice driving my car, since I was going to have to get used to it when Cliston went on vacation. I must have been driven around a million times in the past and it always looked so easy. However, I wasn’t good at complicated controls. I liked a trigger and a barrel, and anything more than that and I got confused.

I was trying to remember Cliston’s driving instructions as I puttered along at ten miles an hour. Because of my dense skin, I normally didn’t have a lot of feeling in my feet, or hands, or anywhere, so I wasn’t really cut out for operating push-sensitive pedals.

After a dozen stop signs, I had also mangled the steering wheel and broken the turn signal. I grazed a building when I took a turn, but it didn’t sound like it caused much damage.

Fortunately, there weren’t many other cars around nowadays or I probably would have hit them.

When I came to the club where I was supposed to meet Najosa, I was so stressed from driving that I completely forgot how to stop the car. I jumped the curb and ran into the building across the street as I yanked off the steering column and pushed both of my feet through the floorboards trying to activate the pedals.

It wouldn’t let me put the car in park, because there was no longer a brake, so I couldn’t take out the keys. I exited the car, which was still trying to feebly drive forward against the building.



There was a big bouncer outside the club, but no line. The name of the club was F&E.

“Is that your car?” the bouncer asked me.

“No,” I said. Though I wasn’t sure why I lied. He clearly saw me crash and then walk across the street.

“Right hand,” he said.

“Right hand what?” I answered anxiously. I thought he was asking me about rules of the road. “I’m not a very good driver.”

“No kidding. Give me your right hand.”

“Oh. Why?”

“Do you want to get in or not?” he asked.

“Yeah, but not just my right hand. What are you going to do?”

He took out a small electronic device, about a foot in length.

“I’m not going to cut it off. Hold still,” he said.

He put my hand in the device as I held my glass flowers in my other hand. The machine made some noises and the bouncer kept repositioning my hand.

“If you’re trying to scan me, it won’t work. I can’t be scanned,” I said.

“Then you can’t come in,” he stated flatly, putting the machine away and crossing his arms.

“I’m here to see Najosa.”

“Najosa?” He seemed skeptical, looking over my outfit.

“Yeah. Blonde. Diamond eyes. Good bone structure. Definitely female.”

“Your first time here?” he asked.

“Yeah. What’s the place like?”

“I’m sure you’ll fit in,” he said, and opened the door.

Inside, the club was dark and filled with dark people. It took my eyes a long time to adjust, but every damn person here was wearing black synth.

Except me.

It looked like a rough crowd. A non-cummerbund crowd.

There were some tough guys with bare arms and chests. As some kind of masochistic jewelry, they wore huge chains with weights and anchors on them.

But there were also small people dressed head-to-foot in black synth with metal spikes and doodads here and there.

Not one person was smiling or appeared to be having a good time.

“Are those flowers for me?” a man asked.

It was my uncle Frank. He was wearing his facemask as usual.

“What are you doing here?” I asked.

“This is the Society of the Free and Easy,” he said.

I looked around. The name didn’t fit the club.

“Is that some joke I don’t get?”

“These people are all Ontakians. They’re the leftovers from Floloria who didn’t leave when that space station shut down,” he said.

Floloria was a Rettosian installation that was still in the System, but uninhabited. It was too clunky to move, so all the Rettosians simply left it behind. Ontakians had lived there as workers and hired hands.

“What does the Society do?” I asked.

“Get drunk, mostly. But they also hassle the PCC.”

“Are you a member?”

“Me? Nah. I don’t like the PCC, but we can’t go around killing everyone and everything just because they’re stupid. Pretty soon there won’t be anyone left in the galaxy.”

“Have you seen Najosa?” I asked.

“She should be coming on in a bit,” he said.

This was by far the most Ontakians I had ever seen and I was quite excited about it. I knew almost nothing about my own people other than what Frank told me, and he wasn’t always reliable.

“Hey, no one else is wearing a face mask and breathing your funky air,” I challenged.

Frank had assured me I was hurting myself by breathing the standard Colmarian air mixture. He said that our native atmosphere contained fluorine gas, a substance which was normally quite fatal, so I never tried it.

“They’re dumb,” he shrugged. “I’m probably the only one here who ever spent significant time on our home world before it was destroyed.”

“Why are they all dressed like they’re going to a perverted funeral?”

“Just a style. But maybe it comes from being a bioengineered species, that were formerly slaves, and now are nearly extinct.”

I considered myself somewhat of a pessimist, but compared to this bunch, I felt like Captain Sunshine Gigglepants.

The dim lights seemed to get even dimmer and I noticed there was a small stage to the side. Three people were up there with instruments and they began playing. I didn’t know if they were trying to emulate the sounds of an orphanage, filled with tone-deaf yodelers, being sucked up into a tornado, but they were spot on.

It took me a long while, but I finally recognized one of the screaming, thrashing “musicians” as Najosa.

She was jumping and kicking and flailing around and yelling into a microphone as she played some kind of instrument.

“Is this native Ontakian music?” I asked Frank.

“No, this is crap. But they don’t play for long, thankfully.”

This was the first I had seen Najosa in sort of normal clothes. She was a lot shorter than I remember. Probably because the Suckface wasn’t a very tall ship so we spent a lot of time sitting or lying down. She was wearing a black synth miniskirt and a black synth, kind-of belt, that covered her breasts. Other than her boots, that was the extent of her wardrobe. She had a lot of tattoos. So many that at first I thought she was fully clothed.

The band continued to rock with great abandon, and the audience, other than Frank and myself, seemed to love it.

I suddenly felt very lame. Which was a new sensation for me.

I was not the coolest guy in the galaxy. I just didn’t care. I was too lazy to care. And I was bulletproof. I mean, even if someone thought I was a dork, what were they going to do about it?

But now I felt like a pretender in a green suit and white tie. Yes, I was an Ontakian, but I wasn’t an angry Ontakian like all these dancers around me. I was more of a hungry Ontakian.

These were technically my people and I felt keenly aware that I wasn’t one of them.

The audience, particularly the large, muscled men with their tow truck necklaces, began jostling with one another. At first it was kind of a mixture of pushing and dancing, but then it got a lot more violent and people were flying through the air.

If these were really Ontakians, I assumed those big guys were combat models like me. But I didn’t have any great desire to punch the person next to me just because the music was terrible.

Someone came barreling into me, head first.

“My flowers!” I yelled.

They were shattered. Cliston worked really hard on those and now I didn’t have a gift for Najosa. Though she didn’t strike me as a glass flower kind of gal now that I saw her native environment.

I was expecting the guy who hit me to apologize once he righted himself, but he stood up, looked at my clothes, and then punched me square in the face.

I was pretty surprised, because my cheek hurt. I’ve been shot in the face more times than I could count. For a person to punch me, and for me to be uncomfortable afterwards, proved this guy was tremendously strong.

I had a policy of not letting people who attacked me go unpunished. It was bad for your reputation. Putting up both my arms, I stomped forward to try and grab hold of the man who hit me.

Before I took two steps, I got hit on the side of my head with what felt like a fire hydrant. I looked over and it was a fire hydrant. It was attached via a chain to someone’s waist and he had swung it like a club.

A table hurtled at me from another direction and shattered against my side.

I turned around to see if my uncle was going to help me in this escalating fight. Frank was gone. I briefly caught a glimpse of him. He was standing on the exact opposite side of the club.

I think he wanted to make sure everyone knew he wasn’t with me. That was Frank.

After a few minutes, I found myself at the bottom of a huge pile of Ontakians. It had taken about five of them to tackle me, but they managed it. One guy who was above me in the pile had a free hand and was twisting my nose.

Remind me never to bring flowers to an Ontakian club.

I started to get worried. There was a real danger of suffocation with this much weight sitting on top of me. Frank was probably piling on furniture or picking their pockets.

With a ferocious roar, I started pushing against the floor with my arms and legs.

The pile shifted and I could stand up. I found the guy who was twisting my nose, and grabbed him by the neck. I pushed his head completely through the thin metal countertop of the bar.

A burly man got in my face and I took hold of his necklace. It seemed to be a bunch of paint cans filled with concrete. I rammed one of the cans into his head over and over until he was a bloody mess and slumped to the floor.

It was around this point that the club displayed considerably less interest in fighting me.

But I’d lost it. I was beyond furious. I ran around the building chasing anyone who got near, but they were fast and I was not.

I went into the bathroom, where I saw someone with his back to me, urinating. I pulled the sink from the wall and smashed it over his head, right as he turned around in alarm.

Returning to the club’s main floor, I got hold of one of the small, synth-clad people and hurled him or her like a glocken token. The person bounced off the opposite wall and lay on the floor.

As I was searching for more people to fight, I was suddenly bathed in blue light.

To my left, a man stood there with what looked like a small pistol. But the barrel emitted a light that illuminated every corner of the club. It created a noise so powerful that I could feel it in the back of my throat.

Everyone was standing clear of the weapon and I knew I was about to get shot.

I covered my face and turned sideways.

Bzow!

I felt the beam hit me and smelled my clothes incinerating.

When it was over, I prepared to fight them, but everyone stood there looking confused. The lights were on. The music had stopped.

“Hank is an Ontakian,” I heard Najosa say using her microphone. “He’s a mutant Ontakian, and a friend of the Society.”

Ontakian plasma weapons, like the one I was just shot with, were of limited value against Ontakians. Which was fortunate. The metal wall behind me was melted and half my clothes had been disintegrated.

Club goers started to file up, one-by-one to shake my hand and congratulate me on…I don’t know. A good dance? Helping remodel the club? Surviving?

“Sorry,” Frank said. “I figured you had it under control.”

“You’re like the worst uncle ever,” I replied.

“Nah. You should have met mine.”





CHAPTER 13




“I got you a gold bracelet. But I lost it in the scuffle,” I lied to Najosa, staring at her diamond-colored eyes, tattoos, and supple body. You’d think as a combat model Ontakian she would be big and hulking, but she was anything but.

We were backstage in the small dressing room. I hadn’t realized, but the other two members of her band were the Ontakians I had taken to the PCC installation. Shella, the female architect, and Nordan, a male technician. They were hard to recognize in their wacky, synth, musician outfits.

“Why would I want a gold bracelet?” Najosa asked.

She really took the fact that she was a combat model seriously.

“It was wrapped around the handle of a Tonsus submachinegun,” I further lied.

“Oh, that was thoughtful. We can look around after the club empties and try and find it,” she said.

“Someone probably took it by now. You know those Ontakians,” I said, pretending I knew anything about Ontakians.

“You were pretty wild in the mosh pit,” Shella said. “You’re not actually supposed to try and kill people.”

“They started it. I got really pissed off. Not sure why,” I said, thinking back.

“We put a tiny bit of daxapronal in our fog machine,” Nordan said.

“What’s that?” I asked.

“It’s a drug that stimulates the enhanced adrenal system in combat Ontakians. But I’ve never seen anyone respond like you did,” Najosa said.

“That’s the stuff those Ontakians used!” I shouted.

I had fought some Ontakians years ago who had been insanely powerful when they huffed a drug. I used it a few times but it essentially made me psychotic. A version of it is what Delovoa extracted to make the formula that was the basis for most of my food.

“Which Ontakians?” Shella asked.

“Forget it. Why would you pump that into the air? You trying to cause a riot?”

“We only put a few drops and…usually, people don’t go running around hitting people with bathroom sinks. The fighters do a little wrestling is all. You aren’t supposed to take it so personally,” Najosa said.

“They tried to plasma me,” I sulked.

“If you’re an Ontakian, a plasma weapon won’t do anything to you. But it did get you to calm down,” Nordan said.

“I’m curious why daxapronal makes you like that,” Najosa said.

“I took some before and it had the same effects. Worse, really. I kind of go crazy and it’s really hard for me to get in control. But I become much faster and stronger. I guess Frank didn’t experience it because he has that stupid breathing mask.”

“It must be your mutations that make the drug work differently,” Najosa guessed.

“How many mutations do you have?” Nordan asked, amazed.

“Watch,” I said.

I reached above my head, concentrated as best I could, and tried to raise my legs. But I fell to the floor.

“That’s great,” he said, unsure.

“No, I can fly. Just not very well. I’m tired.”

They all exchanged glances. It probably sounded far-fetched that someone my size could fly.

“Wait,” I said, and I got back on my feet. “Just watch me this time.”

I tried to relax and forget I was performing in front of an audience. Took some deep breaths. Then I raised my arms and slowly lifted my legs.

“Huh,” Shella said.

I was in the air for maybe a second or two before I touched back down.

“So what do you use that mutation for?” Najosa asked.

“That’s about it: showing off in clubs. I think I’m a bit too heavy.”

“You should go on a diet,” Najosa said hurtfully.

“It’s not that I’m fat. It’s part of my mutation. I’m really dense.”

“I think there’s some fat there,” Nordan replied, poking at my stomach.

“So you want to get something to drink?” I asked Najosa.

“I don’t drink,” she replied.

“You just take drapotol?” I asked skeptically.

“Daxapronal. No, we spray it at the audience and I stand in front of a fan,” she said.

“Alright, so…you want to eat something?”

“I really think you’d be a lot healthier if you ate less. On your ship, you ate as much food as the rest of the crew,” she said.

“It’s my ship.”

“Is it true that you said you were glad of the civil war?” she asked.

“When did I say that? That doesn’t sound like me.”

“When we were flying back. You said the Colmarian Confederation had been evil,” she said.

“I was making chit chat. I don’t really pay attention to the stuff I say. Sure, the Colmarian Confederation was an abomination. But I didn’t wish for all those people to die in the civil war. And it’s not like we ended up any better with the PCC.”

“Exactly. That’s what the Society of the Free and Easy is all about,” Najosa said.

“About what?”

“Our goal is to end the PCC once and for all,” she said.





CHAPTER 14




“I found a woman to date. I think,” I told Delovoa.

“You think she’s a woman or you think you found her?” he asked.

We were flying in the Suckface for the ninth straight hour, monitoring transmissions and looking for the parties responsible for hacking the Dredel Led.

“Think I found her. She’s a good match for me.”

“Fat and stupid?”

“Hah, hah. Her name is Najosa,” I said.

“She know you’re a mutant?”

“She knows I’m an Ontakian. She’s one also.”

“Wow. Small galaxy. There probably aren’t more than fifty thousand of you left and you manage to sex one.”

“Well, we haven’t done anything yet. I’m not entirely sure we’re dating, really.”

Delovoa looked up from his control panel.

“You are the worst when it comes to women. You can punch past a hundred robots, monsters, and aliens, and a pretty smile turns you into a weakling.”

“Look who’s talking. When’s the last time you dated anyone?”

“I go out all the time.”

“Yeah, right. Everyone thinks you’re a weirdo.”

“I have my own method. I call it, ‘making friends.’”

“What’s that involve?”

“Look,” Delovoa said, and he thumbed through his tele. He found a video and showed it to me.

It was Delovoa in his apartment, sitting at a table next to three animatronic mannequins that were dressed up in ridiculous outfits. Delovoa was having lengthy conversations with them as they twitched spastically.

“This is the creepiest thing I’ve ever seen in my life. Who has tea parties?”

“I do.”

“That’s not a tea party. That’s talking to inanimate objects.”

“You’ve clearly never been a little girl,” Delovoa said casually.

“Neither have you!”

I gave back the tele.

“Don’t…don’t show me stuff like this again,” I said. “I have a tough enough time justifying all the crazy stuff you do.”

“So what’s this mystery woman like?” Delovoa asked.

“She’s not a mystery. You can meet her if you want. But you can’t do anything strange.”

“You mean like build you a detector and hang out in your spaceship for hours and hours helping you make fifty million credits?” he asked.

“You’re getting your cut. Don’t get snotty. She’s a combat model Ontakian. Real business. Tough. Smart. Short.”

“You’re talking about Garm? Because that sounds just like her.”

“No. Garm is in the PCC Navy now. She’s practically a traitor.”

Delovoa laughed.

“Traitor to what? Poverty? I work for the Navy when they pay me. I still help fix the Portals for them now and then.”

“I wouldn’t. The PCC is the enemy as far as I’m concerned. They took over our System, wrecked our economy, and scared everyone away. Remember how important Belvaille used to be? Now we aren’t anything.”

“We’re still important. Just because we have the goofy name of Portal Depot #4382 doesn’t mean we aren’t valuable,” he said.

“I guess. But unless the Skim starts working, the city is going to die out.”

“Nah. Belvaille used to be at the edge of the galaxy and it didn’t die. It’s actually quite a nice facility. It was built at the height of the Colmarian Confederation and cost a fortune. It’s probably one of the best space stations in the galaxy.”

“And none of its citizens can vote,” I said.

“Why would you want to vote if you think the PCC is so bad?”

“It’s the fact that they won’t let us that irritates me. Like we aren’t good enough.”

“Well, we aren’t. All that’s left on Belvaille are a bunch of thugs and grifters. It’s not like the pinnacle of society stayed behind when everyone else left.”

“Hey, do you want to hear my spaceship safety speech?” I asked.

“I guess. It’s got to be more interesting than you talking about imaginary girlfriends,” he said.

“Hello, the following procedures are in case of sudden exposure to vacuum.”

“We’d be dead,” Delovoa interrupted.

“Shush. The emergency pressure suits are located to the fore and aft. To activate them, grasp both handles firmly, stretch your arms apart, and depress the triggers. They provide a self-contained breathing helmet with ten minutes of oxygen,” I said.

Delovoa stared at me.

“That’s got to be the dumbest thing anyone ever said. Who is going to save you in ten minutes when you’re floating in space? Do you have instructions on how to put out a fire in case you get too close to a supernova?” he asked.

“It’s one of the new laws. I’m supposed to say it any time someone comes on board,” I replied.

“Well, it’s damn informative. But getting back to the subject of women, why did you and Garm break up? It’s obvious you still like her.”

“What? No, I don’t. As for why, I just felt it was time to move on.”

“Hah! You’re going to pretend that it was you who broke up with Garm? I’ve got three eyes and three brains, not one eye and no brains. She’s so much better looking than you that it’s a quantum improbability that you even went out together.”

“Funny stuff. It doesn’t matter, she’s back to being Adjunct Overwatch. She’s Navy through and through.”

“If she was really the Navy she would have arrested us on any of the hundreds of laws we’ve broken. She’s Garm. Which means she’s more corrupt than we could ever dream of being,” he said.

“She’s still PCC. She had a choice. She could have worked on the Skim with us and instead she chose the other side.”

“Does she get to vote?”

“How should I know?” I asked.

“Hey, shut up a second,” Delovoa said, looking back at his controls. “I’m picking up some transmissions.”

“Is it the hackers?”

Delovoa fiddled with the system.

“No. But they’re unusual. This isn’t a frequency or signal type anyone around here uses. And it’s pretty powerful.”

“Where’s it coming from?” I asked.

Delovoa pointed to the side of the ship.

He then got up and went to the cockpit as I followed.

“Zzzho, what’s out that way?” Delovoa asked, still pointing.

“Not much. Let me check. Um. Hold your arm steady. The closest thing in that general direction is the Rettosian space station, Floloria.”





CHAPTER 15




“This is a pretty good haul,” Delovoa said, as we walked along the streets of Floloria.

“I’m the one hauling,” I grumbled.

I was pulling a large metal cart filled with gear we ransacked from the Rettosian space station. I had taken baubles and paintings, while Delovoa had stocked up on technology.

Delovoa couldn’t pull the cart because he would probably rip off his own arms.

We had docked with the station to try and investigate the strange signals we detected. But in short order we realized that was easier said than done. Floloria was a city. Not nearly as large as Belvaille, but a city nonetheless. Furthermore, Delovoa said the transmission didn’t match the Dredel Led hack.

The city was empty as far as we knew so after a few hours of wandering around, we decided to loot the place. The Rettosians left nearly everything behind when they vacated.

“You should get Cliston here. There were a lot of carpets back in that last apartment, and I can smell your underwear is wearing thin,” Delovoa said.

After giving himself an oversized nose, Delovoa was able to smell with incredible accuracy.

“Cliston is on vacation.”

“I thought he rarely left Belvaille,” Delovoa answered, surprised.

“He’s standing in the corner of my house. But it’s still vacation. He’s like…hyperdriving to the Dredel Led capital city.”

“Don’t use words you don’t understand, Hank. His capital? Maybe he’s the one hacking Thaxmultaerea.”

“No, he got me the job.”

“It’s a perfect cover.”

“None of us get paid unless we stop the hacks. And knowing him, he’s probably making more than both of us.”

“Is Cliston powered off?” he asked.

“Not sure. He’s just standing in the corner and hasn’t moved in a few days.”

“You should have told me! I’d love to examine Cliston. That guy is amazing.”

“If he woke up, he’d kill you. He said all I have to do is walk up to him and yell ‘Cliston’ and he’d be back immediately,” I replied.

“Oh. Then, yeah, I won’t mess with him. Cliston is a bit scary.”

“No kidding,” I said. “He’s travelling across the galaxy while leaning next to my chest of drawers.”

“I smell something,” Delovoa said urgently.

“You’re on a city. Can you be more specific?”

“I smell people.”

“How can you smell anything with your body rotting?” I asked.

“It’s not rotting anymore. I fixed it.”

“How did you ‘fix’ it?”

“What are you, the body part police? Listen, someone’s down that way. A few people.”

“Is their underwear in good condition?”

Despite the tease, I let go of my cart of stolen goods, and took up a more defensive position.

“Don’t be mad that I gave myself superior senses and a superior physique,” Delovoa said.

“Try pulling this cart, Mr. Superior.”

“Shut up, they’re getting close. How did they find us?” Delovoa asked, looking around for cameras or scanners.

“Probably because we’re bickering on an uninhabited space station.”

It took a few more minutes for them to reach us and we kept our mouths shut while they approached.

They were two large men, wearing heavy metallic body armor. I suspected they were like us: looters. But if they weren’t above looting, they weren’t above robbing. And they both carried long, flat rifles with extremely wide barrels. I didn’t recognize the weapons.

As they drew closer, I could tell they were Rettosians. Rettosians had liquid, vibrantly colored, gurgling skin that flowed across their bodies. These men had their faces uncovered and their skin was definitely liquid.

“Hi,” I said, smiling.

“Who are you?” one of them asked.

“We’re Rettosians. Who are you?” Delovoa stated.

We looked more like lizards than we did Rettosians. Despite being a pathological liar, Delovoa wasn’t very good at it.

“We’re the guys who are going to kill you,” the other man answered.

“No one needs to kill anyone. We’re just doing a little shopping and we’ll be on our way,” I said quickly.

“You will be on your way,” the first man said.

They both clicked something on their guns and pointed them at us, looking downright mean.

I pushed Delovoa out of harm’s way and I was hit in the chest by two beams of light.

Nothing happened.

I was about to rush forward when I noticed I was now five feet further away. Then forty feet away from them. Then two hundred. Then I hit a building, flew through the outer wall, through the inner wall, through another outer wall, and rolled to a stop in the middle of the street.

I was aware of it going on, but it literally must have taken only a few seconds. There wasn’t even a pushing sensation or a feeling of acceleration. The only way I knew I was moving was because I saw it.

All the walls on Floloria were thin aluminum, so it wasn’t as if I was pushed through feet of concrete or steel. However, I was still dazed. I took a moment to count my legs, my arms, my fingers, my head, to make sure everything was still there.

My tele rang. Why not? I answered it.

“Some guys came to harass the ship so I had to undock,” Zzzho said.

“They’re harassing us too. How can we reach you if you aren’t docked?” I asked.

“There are emergency berths in different corners of the space station. They can’t cover them all. Meet me at DD33. It’s on the far north, middle part of the city. Should be lots of emergency exit signs nearby,” he said.

“DD33. Sure. Hey, I got another call,” I said.

“I’ll see you there.”

“What the hell was that?” Delovoa asked.

“Did they shoot you?”

“Yeah, but the beams pushed me straight up into the sky. I’m on the latticework on top of the city, maybe two thousand feet high. If I hadn’t grabbed hold, I would have fallen to my death. My nose and ears are bleeding and I puked up a week’s worth of food.”

“Your nose is always bleeding.”

“That’s mucous. What are we going to do?”

“Zzzho got shooed away from the port. He’s meeting us on the north side at an emergency exit. DB30 in the north.”

Delovoa was quiet a moment.

“I just checked. There isn’t a DB30 exit. There is a DD33,” Delovoa said.

“Yeah, that.”

“The details matter, Hank. I don’t want to go to the wrong port and get pushed out into space by some weird repulsion rifles.”

“Sorry, I just got blasted through a building. I’m surprised I’m even talking.”

“I’ll go across this latticework. It has walkways. I’ll meet you there. Tele me when you get close,” he said.

“Okay. I’ll see you at the emergency exit.”

I oriented myself using my tele and began walking. It would take about half an hour to reach DD33—assuming I didn’t get pushed through any more buildings.

It was a shame we’d leave behind all the junk we scavenged, but it wasn’t as if we paid for it.

I felt I had completely recovered from flying through a building when I heard some muted talking. I turned around and saw three figures in the distance. They weren’t the same ones who had shot us. They looked like they were wearing construction clothes, with hardhats and coveralls. I couldn’t tell what species they were because they were too far away, but they might have been Rettosians.

Then an immense bass rumble erupted.

The row of buildings behind me, about five identical, six-story structures, were all missing about a third of their facades. They had been abruptly erased. Or disintegrated. Or something. The buildings were now slowly falling over due to their weight being unsupported.

Falling over in my direction.

It was one thing to get punched through those buildings like a bullet, it was another thing to be buried underneath them.

I began running.

The buildings were all falling simultaneously. I could tell by their shadows that I wasn’t going to make it clear of them.

But the street was not wide enough to accommodate them tipping over, and the structures all smashed into the buildings on the opposite side of the street, making a narrow tunnel for me to run in.

I heard the same bass rumble again.

The buildings I had taken shelter in front of had been split nearly in half! Clearly someone was using a kind of demolition device as a weapon.

Both sets of buildings were now falling, and I was out of hiding places.

Fortunately, I could reach the safety of a street intersection before I was squashed. The structures fell in front of and behind me, but I had a whole cross street of cover.

I decided to hang a right, even if it meant going parallel to the emergency exit. Running in a straight line seemed a bad way to escape a gun that sliced up buildings in a straight line.

I heard the noise and saw several buildings crumble in the distance, but it was far away from my position.

They didn’t get near me again, either because they were incorrectly guessing my current location, or they hadn’t been trying to hit me in the first place. Who knows, maybe I had just been in the wrong place at the wrong time as they were remodeling Floloria.

I picked my way around single buildings and kept heading east and north.

I got an urgent tele from Delovoa.

“Help!” He screamed.

“What?”

“Some kind of beam hit the stairwell going down and severed it. I can’t go up and there’s a thirty-foot drop to the ground. I’m wedged in here but I don’t know how long my legs will hold,” he pleaded.

He gave me his tele coordinates and I hurried to his location as quickly as possible.

He was at the very edge of the city and only about five blocks from the emergency port we had to reach.

The stairwell he was talking about looked like a splinter hanging off a piece of wood at an angle. It was impossible for him to jump backwards and reach the rest of the stairs to the ground.

“You have to catch me,” he yelled.

“You know I’m not a soft surface,” I called back.

“My muscles are cramping and I’m going to fall.”

I wish I had time to go into these buildings and drag out some beds or cots or something. Not sure it would matter at 30 feet. I could jump that distance and land on my head and it wouldn’t hurt—much. But Delovoa wasn’t me.

I had played professional glocken and there was a whole classification of players who caught heavy tokens thrown at them. I had not been one of those players.

It was hard to judge where Delovoa was while looking straight up. The angle of the stairs, and Floloria’s curved, yellow, space station shield played tricks with his orientation.

“Okay,” I said uneasily.

I would have to bend my body to try and cushion his descent.

Delovoa let go.

He was falling. Falling. Falling.

He fell directly behind me and landed in the road with a sickening crack. I had failed to catch, or even touch him, as I had not been lined up correctly.

“Ahhh!” he shrieked.

“Sorry,” I said.

Both his feet were twisted at strange angles and the bone of his right leg was poking out of his skin and pants. The bone was blue.

“You moron! You colossal, fat idiot!”

“I’m sorry. I don’t catch people jumping from latticeworks very often.”

I reached down and picked him up, putting him over my shoulder.

“Stop! Stop! I need a doctor.”

“We have to get out of here. You want to ask those guys who shot us for some first aid?”

I walked toward the emergency port, moving as slowly as I dared.

“Why aren’t you bleeding?” I asked.

“Intelligent…blood control…routing,” he said.

I decided I didn’t want to know more.

Buildings were still falling over, but they were very far from us.

We reached the Suckface and Zzzho disembarked the ship without trouble. Once in space, I exhaled with relief.

People always said space was beautiful. Space was beautiful if you didn’t live in space; if you didn’t spend your entire life in space; if you hadn’t been surrounded for hundreds of years by blackness. To a creature without a butt, a turd must also be a beautiful thing, but you didn’t see me writing epic poems about my last bathroom visit.

There was some medical equipment onboard, which I didn’t know how to use. I didn’t often get sick and if I got physically injured, my body usually healed itself. If I was hurt enough I couldn’t heal, I was likely in a hospital. I basically had zero first aid skills.

But Delovoa knew a lot. He knew enough to create entire bodies. But despite his blood control, he was in shock.

He took some drugs from the kit to ease the pain and he snorted a tiny bit of Zzzho.

Zzzho had the ability to kind of supercharge the brains of biologicals when we inhaled him. It was a bit risky, but not much riskier than compound fractures. And the jolt made Delovoa more competent in dealing with his own injuries.

“Did you know those guys?” I asked Delovoa.

“No. How would I? When I was up on the latticework, I saw there was some kind of large construction equipment.”

“They tried constructing a bunch of buildings at me.”

“That doesn’t make any sense.”

“Deconstructing. Whatever. They were blowing up buildings with something.”

“Why didn’t you shoot them? That’s what you’re good at, right?”

“I’m good at…no, that’s not it.” I was going to say I was good at negotiations, but I didn’t negotiate very well with them. “I think the second group of guys I saw were construction workers. They might not have been after us.”

“The first group who shot us didn’t seem like construction workers. They were wearing body armor. But why would anyone be doing construction on Floloria?”

“Same reason we were looting it. Well, maybe not the same reason. If you could convert that space station to an enormous ship, like a transport, it would be super valuable,” I guessed.

“It would be far too slow. But I suppose you could do things with it. Just the scrap metal would be worth a lot. That still doesn’t explain why they tried to kill us.”

“Maybe they were stealing it,” I said.

“Stealing a space station? From whom?”

I shrugged.

“Do you think they could have been sending the signals we intercepted earlier?”

“I can’t see why. Those signals were going off-station. They were communicating with someone else.”

“Do you think it was that old Rettosian you killed years ago?”

We once encountered an ancient Rettosian scientist on Floloria. He was the one who mutated Belvaille System. Delovoa got mad and shot him—but it was only a clone. So he might still be around somewhere.

“Assuming he’s still alive, he probably left the System with all the other Rettosians. Not much reason to stay around here nowadays.”

“Why did you stay?” I asked Delovoa.

“Because I’m a stupid genius,” he said. “Besides, next to you, I’m the longest-living resident on Belvaille.”

“Is that really something to be proud of at this point?”

“A lot worse places to live. Like any of the thousand or so planets that got eradicated in the civil war.”

“What are you going to do about your injuries?” I asked.

“I don’t know. Who on Belvaille do you think has a nice set of legs I can borrow?”





CHAPTER 16




Someone left a note on my front door:



Meet by the crotch. Tomorrow at 7am.



Even though it wasn’t signed, I knew it was MTB.

No one else would wake up that early, for one. Also, he didn’t like being seen with me because he was a police officer and I was a crook. Though police didn’t do much on Belvaille. Finally, “the crotch” referred to Wallow’s corpse.

People had been terrified of Wallow when he was alive. The non-decomposing remains of the giant were no less scary. Who knew what kind of weird Therezian diseases you might catch standing around him? To actually go between his legs to conduct a meeting, well, we could be sure no one would interrupt us.

I wished Cliston was back. Not only to get his advice, but to make me food. He had prepared some meals before he went on vacation, but I didn’t know how to cook them. He couldn’t just set out things for me to heat up. No, Cliston left complicated dinners all organized and color-coordinated. You probably had to have a doctorate in cookology to understand how to prepare them.

So I was eating undercooked, underprepared slop, that was likely poisonous.

I also couldn’t put on my clothes without Cliston. He had created a very complex wardrobe for me over the years and I could barely tie my shoes without his help.

The next day when I woke up to meet MTB, I decided I would just put on underwear and a bathrobe. I’d carry Gun in my pocket and have a cup of bad coffee.

“You’re late,” MTB barked, once I had reached the dark recesses of Wallow’s upper thighs.

“Not much,” I said.

“Fifteen minutes. You live steps away. My time is important.”

“Why would your time be important? Doing a lot of police work on Belvaille?” I asked sarcastically.

“That’s what I’m here for. A Navy officer is missing.”

I waited.

“What’s he missing? His innocence? His bubble gum?”

“Funny guy. Mr. Boshe told Garm. Garm told me.”

I was annoyed again at Mr. Boshe’s lack of title. Even MTB was technically a police Detective and he didn’t exactly detect much.

“Why does this involve you? Let the Navy deal with it. Or Garm.”

“Garm doesn’t want to. She handed it to me. It’s a big deal,” MTB said.

“Just for one missing sailor? Was he an admiral or something? He’s probably AWOL,” I said, drinking my gross coffee and becoming even more irritated.

“The officer is dead.”

“Then what’s the problem? Tell them he’s dead. Say he hit his head giving food to starving children. They’ll award him a medal posthumously.”

“No. Roll Bungalow did it. The officer got in a fight, started shooting. So they killed him. Then they dissolved his body in acid,” MTB said.

I shook my head.

“That was stupid.”

Roll Bungalow was a gang boss who ran a brothel and hotel. That was a big deal nowadays. Not that he made a lot of money, but he had a job and could provide employment. He and I had some dealings a number of years ago when he was in a different occupation with a different fake name.

“Where did he get enough acid to destroy a body? I can’t even get mustard or pepper on this space station,” I said.

“It’s a grease solvent for spaceships.”

“Oh. What do you want from me, MTB?” I asked.

“The police need to be able to take care of stuff like this. The Navy needs to see we can mete out justice,” he replied.

“Then do it.”

“If I go to Roll Bungalow and try and arrest someone, they’ll end up dissolving me in acid. Or I’ll get in a gun battle. Then the Navy will come settle things. And if Mr. Boshe comes, it will be a whole lot of soldiers kicking a whole lot of teeth out.”

“Yeah,” I said. “That’s why Garm wants nothing to do with this. Want me to talk to Roll? Tell him to give up a fall guy?”

“We don’t need you trying to make deals. We need a real police force.”

“I have no control over that. It’s not like I can bless you and give you legitimacy,” I said.

“Give us your gun. Then people will listen to us.”

“My Rettosian pistol?” I pulled it out.

“Yes,” he said.

“It won’t work for you. It uses the biology of my electricity. And I’m like a big version. Something like that. It’s too early in the morning for science talk,” I said.

“Have Delovoa make us combat gear. Some top-flight stuff.”

“He doesn’t work for me. Ask him yourself.”

“He said he was morally against making weapons for cops.”

“That doesn’t sound right. Delovoa doesn’t have any morals.”

“Maybe he didn’t say ‘morally.’ He said if he arms the police, everyone else will murder him,” MTB corrected.

“He’s probably right. You’re saying you want advanced armor and weapons so the criminals on Belvaille won’t simply ignore you?” I asked.

“Exactly. Right now, we’re outmanned and outgunned. We can’t do any police work.”

“How about plasma guns?” I asked.

“Those Ontakian things you had in the past?”

“Yeah.”

“Do you have any?” MTB asked.

“No. But I might know where to get some.”

He thought it over.

“Yeah, that will work. Belvaille needs police. You have to agree with that.”

“I agree we at least need the appearance of law enforcement,” I said. “But while you guys are getting your new equipment, I have to take care of this dead soldier. The Navy won’t stand for it. And we can’t have them interfering. Especially now.”

“While you’re trying to set up the Skim?” he asked.

MTB was no dummy.

“Yeah. So, are you going to be a hardcase and try and break up the Skim?” I asked cautiously.

“This is Belvaille. It’s not like people are farmers or artists. Everyone here is a criminal of some sort. I figure, the police are to enforce the laws. But Belvaille decides what is illegal and what isn’t. We’re not going to arrest people for spitting on the sidewalk,” he said.

“Do we even have laws?” I asked.

MTB shrugged.

“I figure, if it makes the space station a worse place or endangers our livelihood, it’s against the law.”

“Like murdering a Navy officer.”

“Exactly.”

“Wow, MTB. When did you become such a pragmatist?”

“You either adapt on Belvaille or you don’t live very long,” he said. “So what do you want in return for getting us plasma guns and armor?” MTB asked.

“Like ten favors.”

“What’s a favor? I’m not going to subvert the police force to you.”

“Right now you’re not a police force. You’re already subverted. But in exchange for Delovoa’s help, at least one favor will be a pair of legs.”

“Legs? What do you mean?” MTB asked.

“What guy has the sexiest legs on the station? Delovoa wants them. He busted his last pair.”





CHAPTER 17




“Ugly. Fat. Varicose veins. Ugh, who would wear those slacks? You aren’t very good at taking pictures,” Delovoa said, leafing through my tele.

“No, I’m not very good at it. Because taking pictures of peoples’ legs so we can steal them to fix yours, isn’t something I have a lot of experience with,” I said.

I had sat around for two days trying to program my tele to take leg and face shots. I had also gone to the hospital and threatened the medical technicians so I could get all their x-rays of feet and legs.

We had given up looking for the Dredel Led hackers until Delovoa could make the equipment more sensitive. We had sat in space for a total of sixteen hours. Delovoa said the chances of intercepting a random signal, on a narrow wavelength, in an entire System, was pretty unlikely.

We still didn’t know what happened at Floloria, but didn’t think it was connected to the hack. I spoke to some members of the Society of the Free and Easy, who used to live on Floloria, and they confirmed that if there were any Rettosians still there, they probably would be hostile. Rettosians weren’t the friendliest species at the best of times. Anyone who remained behind when their entire population left were probably a bunch of xenophobic hermits. They recommended we stay clear of Floloria and I had to agree.

“So you said you can build Ontakian plasma weapons, right?” I tried to confirm with Delovoa.

“No, I didn’t say that. I said if you get me one, I can build something similar.”

“I don’t want similar. I told MTB I’d get him plasma weapons for the cops.”

“Your home world, Ontak, is destroyed. Whatever weird elements your species used to create those weapons went with it. It’s not as if there are vast quantities of Ontakonite floating through space for us to use.”

“What’s Ontakonite?”

“Nothing, I just made it up. What I can probably do is make it use Keilvin Kamigan fuel cells just like your spaceship.”

“Will I still be immune to them? I suggested giving the cops plasma weapons because they can’t hurt me,” I said.

“They should work the same. Just the power source will be different. We’ll need to use Zzzho for the energy cells.”

“Poor Zzzho. We’re going to suck him dry,” I said.

It was still hard for me to comprehend how Keilvin Kamigans could simply slough off some of their gaseous bodies so they could be used in batteries.

“He’ll charge you for it,” Delovoa said, still gazing at leg photos.

“What do you give a guy who doesn’t eat, sleep, drink, go to the bathroom, or play bingo?” I asked.

“What do you give him now for driving your spaceship?”

“I pay him credits. But I’ll be damned if I know what he spends them on. He must be rich. I hope he’s not, because no one else can pilot my ship.”

“What do you think of these?” Delovoa asked, holding up my tele to show a pair of beefy legs.

“How should I know? My legs came with my body. Just pick someone. Someone without a lot of firepower or connections,” I added. “Where is Ziggy, by the way?”

“Ziggles. He left when Zeti left. All the Po are gone,” he said absently.

Ziggy was a Po who had been Delovoa’s butler. The Po were the slave species of the Boranjame. The Boranjame were a crystalline species who never stopped growing, who could predict the future, but not directly interfere in it, and were beings of Order. They were the most powerful race in the galaxy. They tooled around in ships the size of planets and periodically wiped out entire solar systems.

Zeti had been relatively small as a Boranjame went, maybe fifteen stories tall. But he had given me lots of scary information that I couldn’t quite forget, despite my desperate attempts to do just that.

He told me that the mere existence of the Boranjame was what made mutations possible. They also made life possible.

Now that was a résumé.

Not only that, but the Boranjame had accidentally made the Creator God, Thad Elon.

Thad Elon had accomplished nearly everything of consequence in the history of the galaxy. He had established the original Colmarian Confederation. He had allowed the Dredel Led to mass produce. He had given technology to the Keilvin Kamigans. He had freed the Ontakians from slavery.

It seemed impossible that one being could do so much. However, I knew for a fact that Thad Elon was immortal. I disintegrated him once and he thanked me for doing it.

I personally witnessed Thad Elon start the Colmarian Confederation civil war, which caused untold billions of deaths. He did it because, essentially, he was bored.

Zeti had stated that Thad Elon was destined to end all life in the galaxy.

Sometimes, hanging out in Delovoa’s apartment, looking at pictures of hairy legs, I would wonder why I even bothered, knowing that all life in the galaxy was destined to die.

It really put things in a horribly depressing perspective. But then my belly grumbled and it was time to get back to work.



“Hello, Master Overseer of Navy and Belvaille Relations,” Garm said. “Won’t you come into my office?”

I was visiting Garm at the telescopes. In the past, all government operations had been in the glamorous one-hundred-story City Hall, but that building was basically empty now. We had little use for such enormous structures ever since Belvaille’s population decline.

Garm’s uniform was now bedecked with medals. They ran down her sleeves and I even saw some on her back as she turned and walked into her office.

The people in the telescope building seemed efficient and competent, hardly sparing me a glance.

When I closed the door, I had to ask.

“What’s with all the medals? Is that one per gray hair that you dye black?”

“I don’t dye my hair,” she said seriously. “I found a loophole that I can nominate people for citations, so I nominated myself. I quadrupled my salary. Why are you wearing a bathrobe?”

“Cliston is on vacation and I can’t figure out my clothes. Also, I’m not really Master Overseer, you know.”

“You are according to the PCC Navy. You told Mr. Boshe that was your title.”

“I said that as a joke,” I replied, alarmed.

“Yes. Because you’re aware of the Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation Navy’s tremendous sense of humor. It’s your job now until someone else gets appointed.”

“How do I appoint someone?” I asked.

“Do what you did: have someone stupid enough to claim it.”

“Can I get paid for the job?”

“You’re not even a citizen. I don’t see how,” she replied.

“This empire sucks.”

“I hear there are some other Ontakians on Belvaille,” Garm stated.

“Maybe,” I said, trying to be cagey.

“Look, there could be a Therezian ballet company, it doesn’t matter to me as long as it doesn’t interfere in my jurisdiction. I run the telescopes. You know, the communications network for this region. I heard chatter that a remote PCC outpost was overrun by a handful of fat, bulletproof people.”

“That could be anyone,” I replied.

“They said the attackers escaped in an ancient Colmarian corvette that had the designation of, ‘Don’t Tell Them It’s The Suckface,’” she continued.

“There’s probably a million ships with that name.”

“I’m trying to explain that it doesn’t bother me. Overrun whatever you want. Just don’t bring any crap back to Belvaille or it becomes my concern,” she said. “So what are these other Ontakians like? It scares me that there may be more Hanks around.”

“No, they aren’t like me. They’re similar to my uncle. But there’s one gal, Najosa, who seems pretty cool.”

“Oh, and let me guess, she just happens to be attractive?” Garm asked.

“What’s that matter? I judge people by their characters,” I said solemnly.

“Yeah, right. You lose all your common sense when it comes to women.”

“I dated you.”

“Like…centuries ago! Why do you always bring that up? We were terrible together and it lasted a handful of months. Why is it some major point in your life after all this time?” she yelled.

Ow.

I took my time responding because I had not been prepared for that attack and, on reflection, I wasn’t sure what to say.

“I don’t date a lot. I’m a big mutant. I guess…why did we break up? I never could really figure it out. I know it wasn’t working, but I don’t know why,” I said.

“Because, Hank, you merely exist. You don’t live. You’re old as hell and you haven’t grown at all, except at the waistline. You make fun of everything because nothing is serious to you.”

“Cancer is serious.”

“See? You were given the incredible gift of a new life and you spent it being a glorified bouncer.”

“I’ve done a ton of stuff to help. The galaxy owes me big time.”

“You only try and do something when you’re forced to, and then you half-ass it. You are the laziest person I have ever met because everything is so easy to you. You don’t age, you don’t get diseases, you’re bulletproof. You keep plodding through life repeating all your same mistakes. Look, you’re good at what you do—you’re great at it. And maybe it’s your personality that makes that possible. But eating and sleeping are probably your two favorite things. I’m romantic enough that I want a bit more in a relationship than that.”

I reflexively looked back to see if anyone outside the office could hear this. But if they did, they kept their heads down.

“You’re going to make it hard for me to enjoy eating if you keep ripping my guts out,” I said.

“I’m sorry. You’re right. I know I have issues, too. A lot. I’m single. You’re single. We’re single for a ton of reasons,” she said, somewhat softer.

“Yeah, but at least you were with someone long enough to have a child. And grandchild. I think my longest relationship was a year. And that’s because she was a crew member on a tanker and I never saw her. Where is your son’s father, if you don’t mind me asking?”

“He’s dead. I…well, I killed him. This was long ago and I was a bit meaner back then. He wasn’t a good guy and he double-crossed me,” she said, appearing somewhat ashamed.

I paused.

“I have an idea. Let’s not talk about relationships ever again,” I said.

I looked outside at the people diligently working.

“So you don’t know if anyone out there is hacking the Dredel Led?” I asked. “Or is that still classified?”

“We broadcast messages for the PCC mostly.”

“Mostly…”

“It would be a major operation to hack a species like the Dredel Led. It would require whole teams of experts. I would know if there was a group here doing that. I can say for certain, there isn’t.”

“Alright.”

“So what are you going to do about Roll Bungalow?” she asked.

“Why does everyone think this is my concern? I’m not a cop.”

“Neither am I. Neither is Mr. Boshe...for now.”

“Ominous,” I mocked. “I’m working on helping MTB get equipment. Maybe he can handle it then.”

“MTB can’t do this. I told him to talk to you.”

“Shouldn’t you have talked to me directly because I’m the Overseer?” I teased.

“Yes. But I know you don’t care and MTB does.”

“So why are you saying he can’t handle it? He’s been a police detective for centuries. I think he was arresting urine in his mother’s womb.”

“Did he tell you who the trigger man was?” she asked.

“It wasn’t Roll Bungalow?”

“That’s just who paid for it. The guy who actually murdered the Navy officer was your old pal, Xandale.”





CHAPTER 18




I wanted to kick in the door at Roll Bungalow’s hotel—make a real entrance. But they had a doorman and he opened it for me.

“Thanks,” I said, handing him two credits and already feeling I was off to a bad start. “Where can I find Roll Bungalow?”

“Who’s askin’?” he said.

I could tell he wasn’t a good doorman. People were trying to maintain a semblance of the swanky conditions that existed in Belvaille’s past, but all the skilled people left. This guy had probably been a janitor on an off-station barge who was now head doorman at one of the best facilities around.

“I’m his lawyer,” I lied terribly, still wearing my bathrobe.

The man pursed his lips and looked me over. Good thing I just tipped him.

“He’s in his office. Want I should tele him?”

“I have an appointment,” I said, walking past.

Inside, the building was massive and most of it was unused space.

There were maybe twenty men and women lounging around on chairs and cots, trying to look sultry and not bored. They were the working people. Gigolos and prostitutes.

The other 90% of the main floor was roped off so people wouldn’t wander around and the staff didn’t have to clean everywhere. There were drop cloths on what looked like hundreds of pieces of furniture.

All the white sheets made it look like some kind of ghost town or cemetery.

“Hey, love, care for a poke?” one woman asked, yawning.

“I weigh over a thousand pounds,” I replied, looking around for Roll’s office.

“Damn, hon. You need to ease off on the cupcakes. But we can still make it work, just don’t lean on me.”

“Thanks. Another time,” I said.

I spotted two security guards looking annoyed at my presence.

They were big, bald guys who wore ill-fitting suits and were sweating. Cliston would have had a fit seeing that purple tie and blue handkerchief. Not to mention their boots. Of course, Cliston would probably murder me if he knew I was walking around in public wearing a bathrobe.

“Hank. Sorry, we can’t let you past,” one of the security guards said.

“Hey, Bort. How’s the head?” I asked.

“What?”

“Didn’t you get shot in the head?”

“I did,” his twin brother replied, turning his head and revealing a scar.

His identical twin’s name was also Bort, and they got annoyed when people mixed them up. In consequence, they were in a perpetual state of annoyed. Which turned out was a great attribute for being a security guard at a brothel, since clients often got unruly.

“I need to see Roll about the Navy guy,” I said.

They looked at my clothes and seemed concerned. Like I really meant business because I just took a shower.

Suddenly, Xandale walked up next to me.

“I’ll take him in, Borts,” Xandale said, smirking.

Maybe he was smirking. I always thought he was smirking. He had those gigantic herbivore teeth and he was a jerk, so he was probably smirking.

Xandale wore tasteful clothes, hip and current. No idea where he got them considering the embargo on the space station. He might have a tailor who was stealing curtains like Cliston.

Xandale led me past the twins.

“I told Roll you’d eventually be coming,” Xandale said, as we walked around a few corners and went deeper into the dark, cavernous building.

“I explained we had to lay low while the Skim is being set up, and then he goes and kills a soldier.”

“I killed him, actually,” Xandale smirked.

It was so dark this far back in the hotel that I felt like we were walking by the glow of Xandale’s white teeth. We were quiet for a moment and I wondered if I was being led into a trap. I kept ahold of Gun in my robe pocket.

“So what exactly do you want here, Hank?” Xandale continued.

“If you don’t mind, I’ll talk to my old buddy, Roll.”

We came to a door and Xandale knocked.

The door was opened and inside it was bright. There were no obvious signs of an ambush. There was a nice carpet, some desks, a statue of an angel, and more armed security guards.

“Stank Delicious!” Roll Bungalow exclaimed.

If I was underdressed in my robes, then Roll was under-underdressed. He was wearing only skintight shorts with his upper body waxed and oiled.

“Candar,” I replied coolly.

Roll Bungalow was my former Super Class glocken teammate and captain, Candar. I forget his real name, but it wasn’t Roll Bungalow. He was golden haired, muscular beyond belief, handsome, and pretty much talented at everything that a person could be talented at. Including becoming a pimp and hotelier.

Our team had kind of…cheated at the Championship, which meant all of us were doomed to never be able to play professional glocken again. To me, that was a blessing. But Candar had been quite skilled and it left him without a job. As team captain of the galaxy’s greatest cheaters, probably a lot of people also wanted him dead.

They wanted me dead, too. But good luck with that. About a dozen people had come in the early years after the Championship to try and punish me for cheating. I’ll just say that they didn’t leave satisfied, if they left at all. Candar could outperform me in nearly every way imaginable, but he wasn’t bulletproof or capable of healing grievous injuries like I was.

So Candar decided to hide out among Belvaille’s dwindling population and try his fortunes here. It hadn’t bothered me until now.

“Why did you kill a Navy officer when I specifically said not to?” I asked.

“I don’t think he was an officer,” Roll/Candar smiled.

When Candar was team captain, he had been beyond reproach and possessed sterling integrity. Now that he changed jobs and was a criminal, all his morals were gone. He even switched personalities like a pro.

“Besides, what’s it to you?” he asked.

“Didn’t you hear? Hank is now Master Overseer of Navy and Belvaille Relations,” Xandale stated.

“Wow. How much does it pay?” Roll laughed.

Everyone in the room laughed.

Except me.

“I need a corpse. I need something to work with,” I said, ignoring them.

“The soldier was drunk or drugged. He was armed to the gills and about to kill one of my ladies. Beauty is a precious commodity on Belvaille,” Roll said.

“Your ‘ladies’ didn’t seem so pretty to me when I came in,” I said, just to be pissy.

“Go fly a transport halfway across the galaxy and then tell me what is pretty and what isn’t. You’d fall in love with the first Gandrine you saw,” he replied. “This is my business. I can’t have every soldier come in and beat up my workers. If even one in a hundred did it, I’d be out of work in a month.”

“And it’s not as if lots of gorgeous prostitutes are stopping by Belvaille looking for career opportunities,” Xandale added.

“So you killed him? A soldier?” I asked, trying to confirm this.

“We tried talking to him,” Xandale said. “He wasn’t listening.”

“But I still don’t see why you care,” Roll added.

“If I go up to that battlecruiser and say, ‘Mr. Boshe, the guy who killed your soldier is on Belvaille and his name is Roll Bungalow, formerly Candar,’ what do you think will happen?” I asked.

Everyone lost their smiles—except Xandale, of course.

“What do you want me to do?” Roll asked. “We burned him up in acid. Nothing was left except slurry and we flushed it.”

“Don’t pour acid down the drain. The system can’t handle that,” I said, drawing on my former sewer-worker experience.

“Next time I won’t. But tell me exactly what your goal is?” Roll asked, finally appreciating the seriousness of the situation.

“He’ll do,” I said, pointing to Xandale. “I’ll take him to Mr. Boshe to face punishment. It’s the PCC. Who knows, they may screw up and give him a reward.”

“Can’t we put our differences behind us, Hank?” Xandale asked. “Besides, I’d like to see you take me anywhere I don’t want to go.”

That made me nervous because Xandale knew my abilities. I got the idea he was about to try something so I pulled out Gun to be safe.

Xandale suddenly turned to smoke! Not like, real smoke. But he looked smoky and sort of black and white.

“Gun, can you see that guy?” I asked.

“Hello! Yes, I can,” Gun answered cheerfully.

“Can you shoot him?”

“Sure.”

“Will it hurt him?”

“No.”

“Why not?”

“I don’t know,” Gun said.

“How do you know if you shoot, it won’t hurt?” I asked, feeling foolish arguing with my gun in front of pimps and thugs.

“Because I just did.”

“Because you just do?” I asked.

“I think.”

I put Gun away and walked forward. I waved my arm around. It didn’t disturb Xandale’s smoke and my arm passed right through.

“You can’t hurt me, Hank. But watch,” Xandale said.

He took out a smoky knife from his smoky belt, and tried to stab me.

Poink.

The knife stopped at my chest.

Poink. Poink. Poink.

He stabbed my shoulder, arm, face. I didn’t even feel it. I could tell from his smoky expression that he was expecting a different result.

“That was super impressive, Xandale,” I said.

“Hank, how else can we solve this?” Roll asked.

“You have to pay a fine. It goes to MTB’s police force,” I said.

“Why?”

“Because of crap like this! We need cops. 100,000 credits. That should dissuade others from killing any government officials,” I said.

Poink.

“Knock it off,” I told Xandale, who I think tried to stab my neck while I was talking.

Xandale changed back to normal, his eyes downcast.

“Also, do you know someone with good legs who isn’t such a great worker?” I asked.

“Good legs? What in Thad Elon Drifting Through Space are you talking about? You mean fast? You putting together another glocken team?” Roll sounded excited.

“No, I mean good legs as in sexy. Er, handsome. You have male escorts, right?” I asked.

“Of course. Male, female, in between. Twenty different species. I’m shooting for fifty,” Roll added.

“Great. A male Colmarian with good legs that I can give to Mr. Boshe,” I said.

“What do you mean?” he asked.

“We have to give them a murderer. I assume you don’t want to give up Xandale, so we have to hand them someone else. If we don’t, Mr. Boshe will come down with his army and look for the killer. That would be bad for everyone.”

“I might be able to give up someone,” Roll said, thinking.

“I know it’s unfair to the poor guy who takes the blame. But they’re going to demand justice for the slain soldier.”

“Does this person with good legs have to be alive?” Roll asked.

“Yes! You can’t go killing some rival and try and pass it off as yours. Make sure they have nice legs.”

“What’s with the legs?” Roll asked. “I don’t get it.”

“I’ll just say this: Delovoa.”

“Oh,” Roll replied knowingly.

Delovoa had been our team doctor when we played glocken. His peculiarities were well known to Roll Bungalow.





CHAPTER 19




“I brought you a knife. It’s forged cobalt and titanium with tungsten serrations,” I said, holding up the gnarly cleaver to Najosa.

She had met me at the door to her apartment and took the blade, confused.

“Why did you buy me this?” she asked.

“Because I’m pretty romantic. It comes from being serious,” I said, trying to contradict Garm’s earlier assessment of me.

Najosa moved to the side to allow me to enter, but her brow was crinkled and I wondered if I had misstepped.

“You sound like a teenage girl. I hope you’re not romantic. It’s a worthless concept,” she said.

“Good. I’m not,” I replied quickly.

Her apartment was filled with weapons and armor and everything military except a tank. I didn’t even see a chair.

“Are you carrying any food?” she asked

“What an odd question,” I laughed. “I mean, yeah, I am. Some rations. A bit of jerky. I need it to heal. And I get hungry a lot.”

“You have to give that up if we’re going to be together.”

“Are we dating?”

“Ontakians can’t breed with any species other than Ontakians,” she said.

“We can’t?”

“No. And we’re almost extinct.”

“Wait, so I didn’t have to use a condom all those times?” I asked, dismayed at centuries of lousy sex.

“No, but you can still get diseases. But since your mutation can cure cancer, you could probably cure those.”

“Well, that sucks,” I said, sitting on a crate of what appeared to be rockets.

“We have a duty to repopulate our species. You are an Ontakian combat model with relatively good genes—at least physically. I am an Ontakian combat model with good genes. The remainder of our people are spread out across the galaxy. We have limited options if we want to reproduce,” she explained.

I sat there. My first instinct was to eat some of my food but she’d already made it clear that was a pet peeve.

“Do you like the knife?” I asked.

“I can sell it. I don’t use knives much.”

“It’s the sentiment that matters.”

“Sentiment about what?” she asked seriously.

“I’m not actually sure at this point.”



“This isn’t what I had in mind when I said we should go out on dates,” I stated, annoyed.

“Who said this was a date?” Frank asked.

“I wasn’t talking to you.”

“We got a lead on two plasma pistols. You said you wanted to get some,” Najosa explained.

I was on my spaceship, the Suckface, and joined by the Society of the Free and Easy. We were headed to do the one thing I had been told was impossible in space: we were going to pirate another ship.

“So how does this work?” I asked.

“We have to board them. It’s a transport moving museum pieces to another planet,” Najosa said.

“And what if they don’t stop? Are we supposed to ram them? Disable their engines with harsh language? My ship doesn’t have weapons.”

“But it looks like it does. We’ll threaten to blow them up if they don’t let us board,” Frank said.

“What if there’s a PCC Navy patrol around? What if they have an escort?” I asked.

“Then we have to run,” Najosa said.

“What if they have guards on the ship itself?”

“They do,” the woman, Alase, replied. “We know that for a fact because we have their departure manifest.”

“So we’re going to get in a firefight on a spaceship? That seems risky.”

“It is. We need to take out the guards without using guns and without them using guns,” Najosa confirmed.

“Good thing I know magic spells. Hopa Badopa!” I intoned, waving my hands around. But no one seemed to appreciate the joke.

“One more Portal jump and we’ll reach target,” Zzzho stated on the intercom.

“Suit up, Hank,” Najosa said.



I could feel my heart beating in my feet as I waited by the Suckface’s exit.

Our ploy had worked. The transport scanned the two turrets on my ship. They didn’t know they were empty turrets, however.

We said we merely wanted to steal a few items and wouldn’t hurt anyone. For a transport carrying as much as they were, it was probably a good deal—compared with getting blown to pieces.

“Does anyone want to hear my safety speech about emergency pressure suits?” I asked.

“No,” everyone replied.

The Suckface was capable of jamming the communications and sensors of other ships, but no one on board knew how to operate those systems. The transport had probably already sent out a distress call. We would have to hurry.

I felt our ships dock together with a hard thud. I took out Gun as I waited for the airlock to open.

“You can’t bring that,” Frank said. “It’s powerful enough that if it feels like it, it could breach the hull of the ship and kill us all.”

“So you want me to go unarmed?” I asked.

“And alone,” Frank said.

He took Gun from my hand and pushed me. When I was on the other side of the airlock door, he flushed the tube.

I went swirling through the connecting tunnel toward the transport ship. I flew inside their boarding compartment, right as the door opened.

I was surrounded by five guards who seemed incredibly surprised at my instantaneous entry.

Man, was I angry.

So angry.

Actually, I was beyond angry. I was in such a transcendent state of hatred that I was hardly aware that I had crippled and battered and otherwise bludgeoned the five guards who met me.

I stood there punching myself in the chest and face because there was no one else left to punch.

Somewhere in my head I knew this wasn’t normal behavior, but I didn’t care. I took off running to find more enemies. More things to hurt and maim.

The pilots.

The engineers.

The loading crew.

All of them eventually suffered broken bones and contusions at my beefy hands. They tried to run, but there was nowhere to go. We were in space.

I stood there for probably three minutes punching what turned out to be my shadow. I punched my way clear through the floor, bloodying my hands in the process.

It was about this time the Society of the Free and Easy, freely and easily made their way onboard to survey the damage.

“Good job, champ,” Frank said.

“Did you give me that drug?” I asked.

“Daxapronal. I figured it was the easiest way to secure the ship,” Najosa said absently.

“You turned me into a shock troop? What if I had been killed?”

“How?” she asked.

“Who knows? I don’t like being used.”

“We’re trying to get you a plasma pistol before the Navy shows up. Start looking,” she replied.

None of the crew were dead that I could tell, but they weren’t much better off. We rounded them up to make sure they were all in the same location and not going to do anything foolish.

As the drug faded away, I became very frightened of the situation I was in.

I had attacked a spaceship and there were plenty of witnesses. I didn’t specifically know if it was against the law, but this was the PCC. It had to be against a thousand laws.

I went back into the cargo hold to find Najosa.

“Look for a box labeled E309,” she said.

“What about all those people? They can describe me to the Navy,” I said.

“What people?”

I heard distant automatic fire from several small caliber guns.

Najosa saw my horrified expression.

“Those were citizens of the PCC profiting from the destruction of Ontak. They were selling our heritage as trinkets and curiosities. You shouldn’t feel sorry for them, Hank. You should be disgusted by them. There’s the box. Get it and let’s go. Wait, what’s that?”

There was a large tarp covering a cone about seven feet long and two feet in diameter. When Najosa threw off the sheet, even I could tell what it was.

It was a warhead.

Frank came in right as we discovered it.

“Holy hell, that’s an Ontakian plasma missile,” he said.

“Please tell me you don’t want to bring that along,” I said.

“Hank, we hit the jackpot. Of course we’re bringing it,” Najosa replied.

“What, are we going to sit on it? You know the Suckface hardly has room enough as it is. And I’m not dragging a nuclear warhead into my ship,” I said.

“It’s not nuclear. It’s a Massive Enhanced Plasma Ordnance. M.E.P.O.,” Frank said.

“How do you know that? How is it you know all this obscure stuff about Ontakians but none of the basic things? Huh?” I yelled.

“It’s written right there on the side,” he said, pointing.

“Oh. Well, what does that mean? I don’t want to get massively ordnanced because I tripped over this thing on our journey home.”

“Plasma weapons don’t harm Ontakians, Hank. You know that,” Najosa said.

“That’s not a plasma gun. That’s a warhead! Don’t tell me when it explodes nothing but Ontakian folk songs burst out,” I argued.

“We’re taking it. We got you a plasma gun like you wanted. This is our payment for the job,” Najosa said.

“I did all the work! What can you possibly do with a massive plasma bomb?” I asked.

“We’ll find a use for it,” she said.

There wasn’t anything else to do. I wasn’t going to stand here and argue, giving time for a PCC warship to come and blast us to hell.

The trip home was relatively uneventful.

Other than yelling at people now and then when they bumped into or leaned against a doomsday weapon that was sitting square in the middle of the crew compartment.





CHAPTER 20




We’d acquired two plasma pistols and I took the newest-looking one.

The Ontakians left with the Massive Enhanced Plasma Ordnance tied down to their car. It was heavy enough that it shattered the front and rear windshields and put a huge dent in the vehicle. The fact they drove across the city towing a warhead, and no one stopped them, was not only a testament to how empty Belvaille was, but how dangerous.

I gave my plasma gun to Delovoa so he could use it as a model. Using it, he built a handful of replica plasma pistols and body armor for MTB’s police force. Delovoa said the replicas were very substandard compared to the original, but the original was broken, anyway.

MTB, with fake plasma pistol and body armor, then pressed Roll Bungalow for the male prostitute—with good legs. That was who we would pin for murdering the soldier and turn over to Mr. Boshe.

The fine of 100,000 credits was paid to MTB, then given to Delovoa for the guns and armor, then paid to me for the original plasma pistol.

It’s good to have friends.

I went upstairs the next day to see how the captive was doing. Presumably, Delovoa was going to take the poor guy’s legs. But then I needed to hand him over to Mr. Boshe so he didn’t vaporize our city.

“What do you think?” Delovoa said, wearing a pair of short-shorts.

His legs were indeed “good,” if you could discount all the surgical scars and metal implants.

“How did you do that in one day?” I asked.

“Oh, it only took a few hours,” he said, twirling around, stumbling, and almost falling down.

“Careful, I broke my back getting those legs. I assume the donor is dead.”

“Nope, quite alive.”

Delovoa chicken-walked into the other room. I couldn’t help noticing that he was having trouble getting used to his new limbs or…

“Hey! You got the legs on the wrong side,” I yelled. The left leg was on the right side and vice versa.

“I did this on purpose. Look, I can sidestep really well.”

Delovoa dodged back and forth with extreme rapidity.

“But you can hardly walk. Why do you always do stuff like this?”

“They’re not your legs, why do you care?” Delovoa sniffed.

I shook my head as Delovoa took me to a covered medical bay. He pulled back the curtains and there was our designated criminal.

What was left of him.

“You said he was alive!” I yelled.

“He is.”

I stood there a moment watching the chest rise and fall. That was all that was left. No arms, nothing below the waist, no head. Just a chest, and even that had scars and depressions where it looked like Delovoa had picked out organs.

“What am I supposed to do with this? How will anyone believe he killed anything?”

“I needed spare parts,” Delovoa said simply. “I don’t get these opportunities a lot and he had good arms, a great liver, and if I ever get tired of this nose I got an extra.”

Delovoa’s giant snout had been leaking mucous this whole time. His face was red and raw from regularly wiping it with a handkerchief.

I was frustrated, but what could I do? I couldn’t exactly ask Delovoa to put the body parts back where he found them—though he probably could.

“If I left him with a head, he would have denied having anything to do with the murder,” Delovoa said, seeing my consternation.

“How do I explain him being chopped into bits? Was it a gun battle and he got perfectly dismembered? The Navy wants to punish this guy, but he’s beyond punishment.”

“Say it was a knife fight. A brutal struggle. We did everything we could to save this man for trial, but his wounds were too grievous,” Delovoa stated dramatically.

I stood there thinking.

“No, that’s too confusing. This is the PCC we’re dealing with. If I say that, they’ll probably make me fill out paperwork until I die. I know how to handle it.”



“You do some pretty screwed-up stuff, but this is up there,” Zzzho said, referring to our dismembered semi-passenger as we flew the Suckface to Mr. Boshe’s ship, the Armage.

“He’s not in any pain,” I said.

“How can you be sure? How do you even know it’s a he?”

“Delovoa chopped him up.”

“That guy is really twisted. You know he kept trying to snort me? Even after I cut him off he had a big long straw that stuck into the cabin—as if I wouldn’t notice.”

“He’s a character,” I said delicately.

“And the Navy wants this thing?”

“Not him specifically. But someone. He was the unlucky choice.”

“Nice,” Zzzho said in what I assumed was a sarcastic response. “I know enough to not ask any more questions. We’re coming up on the ship. How are you going to transfer that cargo?”

“I got straps that I can use to drag him through the tube.”

“Ask Delovoa if he wants a few hits from me,” he said.

“Why? I thought you didn’t want him snorting you.”

“I don’t want him cutting me into pieces! If anyone can figure out how to vivisection a Keilvin Kamigan, it’s that guy.”



“I’m glad you were able to take care of this for us,” Mr. Boshe said.

We were sitting in his office, surrounded by his omnipresent piles of paper. I had delivered my prisoner at the port, so Mr. Boshe hadn’t seen him.

“I think you need to separate these folders, because they seem to be breeding. There’s a lot more since I was here last time,” I joked.

Mr. Boshe smiled ruefully.

“I know the PCC has too much paperwork. It is one of the many inefficiencies I have to deal with,” he said.

“Like that and the fact you aren’t even a soldier in the Navy?” As soon as I said it, I wondered if I had gone too far. I was, after all, standing on his battlecruiser.

“Yes, exactly. If the PCC could just get organized, we would be the most powerful empire in the galaxy. A true force. As it is, we’re just an enormous collection of civilizations that can’t agree on anything.”

I sniffed at my cup of coffee. They had forgotten to add water, so it was just a pile of grounds in a cup. The water would probably come later, after the appropriate requisition.

“How did you ascertain the person you captured was the one who killed our soldier?” Mr. Boshe asked.

“Just the usual way. We have police forces on Belvaille of course. They did the groundwork.”

“You have police?” Mr. Boshe seemed pleasantly surprised.

“Oh, sure. Detectives, officers, guns…whatever police need, they got it.”

“And your population is comfortable having them? I didn’t get the sense that Belvaille was a fan of law and order.”

I thought how to respond to that. I didn’t want to say we loved cops, because then he might be inclined to bring his own troops and assume we wouldn’t care. I also didn’t want it to appear we were a criminal bastion—because he might further be inclined to bring his troops to secure the city’s facilities.

“I wouldn’t say we are entirely comfortable, but the police are all recruited from our citizens, so we don’t begrudge them,” I replied.

“How did the murder of our personnel take place?”

“I don’t know. I wasn’t there. I’m just fulfilling my duty as Master Overseer of Navy and Belvaille Relations and handing over the culprit,” I said uneasily.

Mr. Boshe activated his military tele, which I could see was a lot clunkier and more complicated than a normal one.

“Sector 323. Yes, Mr. Boshe?” I heard answer.

“Have you received the prisoner from Belvaille?” Mr. Boshe asked.

“Yes, Mister.”

“And he is alive?”

There was a pause.

“Yes, Mister,” the voice answered unsteadily.

“Good, then proceed with the interrogation.”

“Uh…”

“Is there a problem?” Mr. Boshe barked.

“No, Mister! We will proceed at once. Over.”

If they could get that torso to talk, I would be in trouble. But I wasn’t concerned.

“I guess I’ll be leaving now,” I said, smiling.

“What’s your hurry? I’d like to talk a bit more,” Mr. Boshe said innocently, which made me nervous.

“I have to Overseer…other things,” I said weakly.

“How is the segregation of the port coming?” he asked.

“Oh, fine. I heard the walls are almost up. We have it set that you all get one third of the berths, and in cases of emergency, you can expand that to half.”

“Excellent. How would we go about signaling this emergency take-over?”

I didn’t like those particular words but I understood what he meant.

“I don’t know. Just ask me?”

“Ask? What forms do we need to fill out?”

“No forms. Just call me up. We’ll get it done.”

“We can’t just ring you personally on the tele to take over the port. What protocols are in place?”

“Mr. Boshe, with all due respect, we aren’t the PCC. You’ve made it very clear we aren’t citizens. We don’t use forms. That’s not how Belvaille does things.”

He seemed to think this over for a long period of time.

“Agreed. But we need a back-up contact.”

“MTB. He’s our police…guy. Policeman. Detective. Police Overseer,” I said, adjusting the title at each cringe of Mr. Boshe’s face.

“Very well. I have other news: there is a ship coming to this System. They made contact several days ago,” Mr. Boshe said.

“Lots of ships come through here,” I shrugged.

“It is a Boranjame vessel.”

I felt a chill.

“Do we need to evacuate?”

“It is not a world-ship, no. Though the occupant is royalty.”

“I met a prince of the Boranjame once.”

“I know. That is why I want you to be our Master Overseer of Non-Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation and Boranjame Relations.”

“I’d grow old saying that title. No, thank you. I mean, thanks, but I’ve had enough contact with the Boranjame for a few lifetimes,” I replied.

“I’m aware of your interactions. This is not officially PCC territory. We can make diplomatic contact, but we can’t lawfully hold long-term negotiations here,” he said. “I wish that we could.”

“Change the law,” I said.

He looked at me like I was a moron. I was asking the head of this PCC Navy fleet, who couldn’t even get an official job title or salary, to go lobby the most backwards legislature in all of creation, and ask it to do something useful.

“That is unlikely,” he replied.

“I don’t want the job.”

“It wouldn’t be a ‘job.’ We couldn’t pay you.”

I huffed, unable to respond to that. This guy sucked at sugar coating things.

“What’s the Boranjame’s name?”

“The Marquor of Lunacy, Gax, the Unfathomable and Disreputable.”

“What? Why would I want to even be in the same System as a Boranjame with that title, let alone hop over and say hi? I had dealings with Boranjame who had nice names and I’m still traumatized from the experience.”

“He asked for you specifically.”

The thousand counter-arguments I had piling up in my throat all crashed into my teeth. If a Boranjame wanted to see me, I didn’t have much choice.

“Okay. But…I’ll need some things.”

My idea was to request some valuable stuff. They couldn’t give me a salary, but I could still rob them.

“Of course. We have the means of reimbursing you for expenses. But I’m afraid you will have to use our rather complicated procedures.”

He walked to the side of his small office and hefted some papers. When he turned around he was struggling to carry a stack about two feet high.

“You’ll need to fill these out,” he said, grunting.





CHAPTER 21




I came back home from my strange visit with Mr. Boshe, and to my great relief, my door opened as soon as I approached.

“Good evening, sir. Would you care for some dinner?” Cliston asked.

I hugged his hard metal body.

“Thank the void! It’s good to have you back, Cliston. I’ve been eating your frozen dinners, frozen.”

“I left you instructions on how to prepare them, sir.”

I walked inside and Cliston deftly removed my bathrobe.

“I’m not a physicist, Cliston. I didn’t understand your directions.”

“May I ask why you were wearing this out-of-doors, sir?” Cliston asked, holding up my damning robes.

“Um. Was I wearing that? I was just stretching my legs,” I lied.

“I received an invoice from Zzzho for transporting you to the Armage. Sir.”

“Oh, that. That too. But we can talk later. How about some food?” I smiled.

Cliston paused a moment and hurried off to the kitchen.



I was eating a typical Cliston twelve course meal and practically rolling my face in the various dishes. I had almost forgotten how good food could taste.

The textures, the flavor contrasts, the rollercoaster of sensations. Even temperature extremes were weapons that Cliston used to batter my taste buds into submission.

“I give this dinner six stars, Cliston. It was excellent. It’s good to have you back. How was your vacation?” I asked.

“Thank you, sir. Five stars is the maximum, and I must admit that three of the courses were only in the 90th percentile of competency. Your oven needs some minor repairs. As for my vacation…here is your post-meal aperitif,” he said, handing me a strong liqueur.

I sipped at it, my brain pleasantly food-addled.

“I have some more information on the hack against the Dredel Led. I was given some coordinates on where it is originating,” Cliston said, handing me a slip with lots of numbers on it.

“Good. That should help. I’ll get with Delovoa and pinpoint where this is.”

“I’m afraid I also have some bad news, sir.”

“Oh?”

“The Dredel Led, my species, is contemplating declaring war on the Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation.”

“Why? Are they really that mad about the hacking?”

“I can’t say for certain; the vote has been postponed for the moment. But there is a strong push toward full-scale invasion.”

“What would you possibly gain from that? Not even I want to live in this empire.”

“I agree, sir. As far as I can tell, there would be no benefit at all.”

“So what’s the point?”

“There appears to be a sizeable faction within our species who wants war. I’m not sure if it is connected to the hacking.”

“Do you have like a Parliament or King or Big Robot Guy you can talk to?”

“We are a pure democracy, sir. One mind, one vote.”

“One mind? Like a colony or something?”

“No, sir. Every self-aware Dredel Led consciousness is allotted one vote.”

“That’s a weird way of saying it. Why not just one vote per robot?”

“Because there are some Dredel Led with multiple consciousness. It’s only fair they should receive multiple votes.”

“So how many consciousnesses…es do you have?” I asked, curious.

“Just one. The vast majority have one.”

I paused to reflect on this and drink some more.

“If you all declare war, what happens to my fifty-million-credit contract?”

“It is extremely unlikely we would be paid in the event of hostilities,” he said.

“I guess Belvaille will be safe. We aren’t part of the PCC. I’m not even a citizen.”

“I’m afraid if war broke out, the Dredel Led would not recognize the odd peculiarities of this individual space station. They would only recognize that this area is of strategic value, sir.”

“That blows. I can’t vote in the PCC and I’m still going to get attacked? Wait, are you being a traitor by talking to me?”

“Nothing has been decided yet. Those of us who are opposed have blocked the decision temporarily. I was hoping you might come and visit Thaxmultaerea.”

“Me? I can’t stand in the corner and…do whatever you did. I got a ship, but it would take me months, at least, to reach Dredel Led territory.”

“There is a way for organic life to visit our realm. It isn’t done often, but Colmarians have visited in the past.”

“Is it safe?” I asked.

Cliston paused.

“I am not certain. A mutant Ontakian has never visited Thaxmultaerea.”

“So I might fry myself to what purpose?”

“I have notified my people you may be coming.”

“What would they care about me?”

“You are a former Super Class glocken player who made it to the Championship, sir.”

The Dredel Led were diehard glocken fanatics. They couldn’t play the game but they loved it to no end. Cliston had been our team’s general manager and he really knew what he was doing.

“So what do I do, sign autographs?”

“No, sir. You need to try and convince my people not to declare war on the PCC.”





CHAPTER 22




I decided to work on my catastrophes one at a time. The closest one to fruition was the Dredel Led about to use my non-empire as a punching bag.

Cliston knew how to make the device that would let me travel to Thaxmultaerea, but he couldn’t build it. Despite his many, many abilities, and robotic design, Cliston wasn’t technical.

I visited my friendly, upstairs neighbor, Delovoa.

“100,000 credits to build the device,” Delovoa said.

“Mr. Delovoa, I believe the design isn’t very complicated,” Cliston offered.

“How about free?” I replied.

“No way, it will still take me some weeks to build. If you let me come with you, I’ll charge half,” Delovoa said.

“I’m afraid that only Hank is invited,” Cliston said delicately. “While accessing Thaxmultaerea is not difficult, entry is impossible without permission. I will have to accompany him.”

“Yeah, I was doing some research on it and apparently the Colmarian Confederation had a similar…hive mind…some thousands of years ago,” Delovoa said. “But we’re not robots. All those species and brains, anyone who connected went insane. 75,000 credits.”

“I will point out that you tend to make a lot of enemies—because you’re slightly psychotic.”

“I prefer the term, ‘atypical awesome.’”

“Most crazy people do. I make enemies as well,” I said.

“Because you’re ignorant,” he snorted.

“I was going to say, because I let you live in my building for no rent.”

“So what? The city is empty. I could commandeer a forty-story mega-mansion, spray it down with liquid nitrogen, and ice skate until my new legs fell off. Your building is practically the smallest one in the city.”

“In any case, the only reason people haven’t dragged you out of here and hung you up by your stolen neck is because they would have to get past me.”

“And you’re super fat.”

“It’s my girth, my guns, and my reputation that keeps you safe.”

“But I build you a lot of things in return,” he said.

“Like the Thaxmultaerea interface device?” Cliston asked.

“Alright, I’ll do it. But in exchange I want Cliston to cook me a meal. A fancy brunch. With seafood and fruit and champagne and cheese and little embroidered napkins that are too small for your face.”

I looked to Cliston for confirmation.

“Is there any other kind of brunch?” he asked.

“What about our contract with the Dredel Led? I want my 3% of fifty million.”

“2%. If we go to war, they’re not going to pay us. But here, they gave Cliston this. They said it was the position of where the hack was coming from.”

Delovoa looked at the coordinates.

“This is Belvaille.”

“You sure?”

“Of course. I know where the city is located.”

“Well, where in the city is the transmission?”

“It doesn’t say, it’s only a broad estimate.”

“Do you think Garm was lying and it’s the Navy telescopes?” I asked.

“You know her better than I do. Would she lie about it?”

“If she thought it was in her best interest to lie, yes, she would.”





CHAPTER 23




Delovoa needed a few weeks to build the device that would let me visit the Dredel Led capital. He had to go hunting for parts in the city.

I figured I would try and find the hack. If I got fifty million credits, I wouldn’t care if we were at war or not. I could hire my own private army complete with shiny boots and fuzzy hats.

The first thing to do was find out what ships were docked here when the hack took place. I was especially interested in any Navy vessels.

I called in one of my favors from MTB and got the port visitation logs from the dates the hacks occurred.

No one ship was here continuously for the duration, so that kind of ruled them out.

“You need to help me, Cliston,” I said.

“I do help you, sir. I’m your butler.”

“No, I need to scan the city using Delovoa’s machine. We’ll go up on the latticework and try and find where the hacking is coming from.”

“That is hardly an expertise of mine, sir.”

“I’m not so expert at it neither. But if I fall off the roof of the city, I won’t need a butler anymore and you won’t get paid.”

“Should I pack you a lunch?” he asked.

“Cliston,” I said, exasperated. “Of course you should.”



Walking along the latticework was not my idea of a good time. It wasn’t even my idea of a bad time. It was pretty terrifying being at the edge of space.

The walkways along the latticework were tiny, with only half-railings all the way around.

I spent my time clutching that railing and not looking down. Cliston spent his time carrying most of the equipment and wiping off my clothes when they got dirty.

It was about four hours of this nonsense when we finally picked up a signal that matched, as far as I could tell, the one that had hacked the Dredel Led.

“The wavy lines are the same,” I said. “That’s got to be it.”

“Where is it coming from?” Cliston asked.

“It must be right below us.”

We were out in the south side of the city. We had been about ready to go home and had set up the machine one last time. I hadn’t expected anything to be out here, but there it was.

We were on the other side of the city away from the telescopes, so there went that theory.

“This is about ten blocks north of The Club and, what, fifteen blocks south of City Hall,” I said.

“What is here?” Cliston asked.

“Nothing. Nothing that I know of. Let’s go down and check.”

“Would you care to eat first, sir?”

“Not up here. Just my luck I’ll burp and fall off this damn platform. We’ll eat when we get down.”

Crawling around thousands of feet in the air had left me quite hungry.

We found an abandoned building near the elevator to the latticework, and Cliston set up a tablecloth and dishes and I had a nice lunch.

From there, it was about a twenty-block walk to reach the point where we had detected the signal. I wasn’t sure if we could scan it on the ground level and the machines were packed up anyway.

But it turned out we didn’t need a lot of help finding the exact location.

There was a small, round-domed building, with a half-dozen PCC guards standing outside. It was the only building within sight that was occupied.

“So, it’s the Navy,” I said, annoyed. “That’s that. I’m not going to attack a bunch of guards on my home city. Mr. Boshe would send down a battalion to arrest me.”

“Sir, might I suggest a stake-out?”

“What for, Cliston? Do you think they’ll suddenly lie down and go to sleep?”

“You may yet find a way to get past them.”

“Okay, but I’ll need more food. A lot more. Don’t tell Najosa, though.”

I sat myself in a third-story window to watch the building. Cliston went home to return the scanning equipment and to cook me some dinner.

At exactly 2pm, the six guards traded places with six other guards.

They walked around at high attention until midnight and then…they left.

“What the hell?”

I sat staring out at the empty street for four hours, wondering what was going on. Then the original guards returned at four in the morning.

“They’ve got two 10-hour shifts!” I exclaimed to the empty room.

Too bad there were twenty-four hours in a day.

It was a perfect example of the backwards PCC. They had that stupid building guarded for five-sixths of the day and the other four hours it was completely abandoned.

Cliston returned to deliver me an early morning snack.

“They leave at night,” I said. “All we have to do is wait until midnight.”

“We, sir? I am happy to assist you with meals and such, but I am not skilled in gunplay or any form of combat.”

“It’s time you started earning your 15%, Cliston. I can’t check that building by myself, it’s pretty large and I only got a few hours to find the hacking equipment and destroy it.”

“Very well, sir.”

At 12:10, with the street empty, we snuck over to the building.

“This has got to be the strongest door in the city,” I said.

The only way into the building was a security door that looked to be about three feet thick of steel. I’d have an easier time trying to dig through the metal street to get inside.

“There might be some lockpicks in the city who can handle this, but I won’t be able to get them here in time. Not at this hour.”

“Sir, may I try?”

I moved away from the door.

“You’re not that strong, Cliston. I can’t even budge that door.”

“No, sir,” Cliston said. And he began to punch numbers into the security panel.

The light turned green and the heavy bolts unlocked.

“How did you know the combination?” I asked, amazed.

“It was all zeroes. They apparently didn’t bother to change the default code.”

“PCC efficiency yet again.”

I had to put my back into the door simply to open it.

“Should I wait outside, sir?’

“No. I need to find whatever is hacking the Dredel Led. Finding it sooner than later will help us get out of here.”

We split up.

The first room I went to had a lot of forged metal casings. They looked like the covers to generators or transformers. There were an awful lot of them and some were quite large. Seeing them gave me doubts I had the right place.

“Sir, I think I found it,” Cliston said on the tele. “It’s the second door on the left.”

“Coming,” I replied.

The room Cliston indicated was about fifty feet wide and absolutely filled with complicated electronics that reached up to the tall ceiling. There wasn’t a sign that said “Dredel Led Hacking Equipment,” but it looked like it would do the job.

“Oh, but that is here as well,” Cliston said.

There was a robot in the room with Cliston!

It looked kind of like a vehicle. It moved on two sets of magnetic tracks. Like miniature tank treads. But where the cabin or turret should be, it had a boxy armature that was covered in rotating, spinning prongs.

It was like a giant blender.

Cliston was pressed against the wall as far away as he could get from the tank. When I entered the room, the vehicle immediately began beeping and driving toward me.

The prongs were spinning so fast I couldn’t tell if they were sharp or even how long they were.

“Don’t move, sir,” Cliston said.

I stopped and the tank stopped, though its prongs kept spinning.

“What is that thing?” I asked.

“It seems to be a robot defending this area. It isn’t a Dredel Led.”

“Well, that makes it difficult to destroy the room.”

“Yes, sir.”

Because it wasn’t a Dredel Led, it couldn’t think. It simply followed whatever basic defense parameters it was designed to follow.

We stood there quietly for a moment.

“Okay, I’m officially asking for ideas, Cliston.”

“I don’t know, sir. As I said, this isn’t my expertise.”

“I think I’m going to try and grab it by the track. If I can disable its wheels, it won’t be able to come after us. Then we can dismantle this place in our own time.”

I was psyching myself up to lunge at the mini-tank.

“Be careful, sir,” Cliston said.

I absolutely hated when people said stuff like that. I mean, I was standing across from an eight-foot-long tank that was covered with spinning blades. If I was “careful,” I wouldn’t be anywhere near this thing. I’d be sitting back in a well-lit club somewhere drinking vegetable juice and monitoring my prostate gland.

But people didn’t pay you fifty million credits to be careful. People paid you to be reckless. To be dangerous. To be just foolish enough that you didn’t stop and question yourself like I was doing now.

I took a deep breath, made three quick steps toward the tank, and suddenly the armature registered my movement and thrust itself at me.

“Blarrb!” I yelled, as I got picked up, and spat out by the rotating blades.

I shot across the room like I had been fired from a gun. The blades had torn up my clothes, but hadn’t hurt me much that I could tell.

“Sir!” Cliston said.

I looked up in time to see Cliston reach out his arm and the tank swiveled again.

There was a terrible grinding noise and Cliston’s hand was shredded to bits!

“Cliston, stop!”

Cliston froze.

I was staring at his torn limb, expecting it to be gushing blood. But of course, Cliston was made of metal. He wasn’t even gushing oil or windshield wiper fluid.

“Alright, I’m going to come from the other side to pull him away. But you stay still.”

Cliston didn’t respond. He looked like a one-handed statue.

I got to my feet and walked around some machines.

The tank turned and shifted its armature to face me. It beeped a few times, but it was hard to hear over the spinning prongs.

“I’m going to try and grab hold of it. Maybe I can break those blades.”

I didn’t get to take more than two steps when the spinning wheel pushed against me again. I crashed into the wall and began rethinking everything:

Life. Love. My choice of occupations.

Maybe now wasn’t the best time to get philosophical—hey, philosophy. Gun!

From my prone position, I pulled out Gun.

“Do you see that big tank thing?” I asked, pointing.

“Hello. What’s a tank?” he asked.

I put Gun away.

“Sir, are you injured?” Cliston asked.

“No. But I’m having trouble remembering why I’m doing this.”

“Fifty million credits, sir.”

“Oh, yeah. But I don’t know how to fight this thing. I can’t get near it before it flings me away.”

“Maybe you could use a long weapon, sir.”

“I don’t know how to use any weapons other than guns, and Gun doesn’t know what robots are. Wait. I’ll be back, Cliston. Stay there.”

I tried to get up, and the tank mashed me into the ground. I spun around on the floor until I was about to throw up.

“Sir?”

“Give me a minute,” I said weakly.

I managed to crawl out of the room. I think I was moving so slowly that it didn’t register to the tank. Either that or it took pity on me.

I stood up and began running down the hallway. The tank didn’t follow. It was clearly programmed to guard that one room.

I went back to the area I started in. I looked around at all the metal casings. Some were positively huge.

My problem fighting the tank was those prongs got a hold of me and kept spitting me out. But if I could armor myself so that the robot couldn’t grab me, I might be able to damage it.

I found a cylindrical metal casing that was three inches thick of steel. It was about seven feet tall and five feet wide.

I picked it up and put it over my body like a sleeve. I now had armor.

Sort of.

I couldn’t see. And I was trapped inside and couldn’t use my arms or legs. It was like a gigantic trash can covering me. But I was hoping the robot wouldn’t be able to tear through this metal cocoon.

I carried it down the hall and once I was outside the room, I yelled in to Cliston.

“Are you still okay?” I asked.

“I’m not sure that ‘okay’ is the best description, sir. I’ve lost my left hand, and I fear that if I move, I will lose the rest of me.”

“I’m going to come in. But you have to give me directions when I move around.”

“I’ll do my best, sir.”

I could tell he didn’t understand what I was up to, but he’d figure it out soon enough.

I put the cocoon back on me and scooted into the room. I had my hands pressed against the side of the cylinder as I pushed it along.

I heard Cliston say something, but I couldn’t hear inside my protective bubble.

There was a terrible grinding noise and I almost got knocked over. Cliston had been trying to tell me the tank was about to attack.

I leaned into it and found the metal cylinder was not only too thick, but too smooth for the swirling metal prongs to chew through or flick away.

When I stopped moving, the robot stopped grinding at me.

I heard Cliston mumbling something.

“What?” I yelled.

“It seems to be attracted to movement,” Cliston repeated.

“Yeah. But how do I fight it without moving?”

I scooted forward an inch and waited.

Nothing.

Another inch.

“It’s getting ready, sir.”

I stopped and waited.

“Now it is relaxed,” Cliston said. “You are very close to it. Just a few feet away.”

I scooted forward inch after inch, pausing for a minute after each time. Finally, I bumped into the treads of the vehicle.

I got down on my knees inside the cylinder and started slowly raising the side to try and look out.

There were the tank treads.

If this thing only attacked moving objects, I could use that.

I stood up inside the cylinder and slowly raised my arms, causing my metal cocoon to rise from the floor.

“Careful, sir. It’s about to attack.”

I stopped and waited.

“Okay,” Cliston said.

I raised it some more. Then I bent my knees, bent my back, bent my arms. In one quick motion, I rose up and flung the metal cylinder off of me and to the side.

It was so cumbersome it only went about four feet away and I was left standing there defenseless—and motionless.

The robot didn’t attack me and instead pressed its armature full of spinning blades against the fallen, rolling cylinder.

I then leapt forward and landed with both feet on the tank’s right tread.

The armature quickly shifted to me and I once again got flung away like a rubber ball.

But unlike before, the tank could not follow me. I had not only bent the tread, but one of the guide wheels that the tread rolled on.

When the tank tried to move, it could only spin in a circle. Its right side was paralyzed.

“Well. That was totally easy,” I said from my upside-down position against the far wall.

“Can I move now, sir?”

“Let me smash its other side just to be sure,” I said.

I got up and walked over, staying well out of reach of its armature. When I got to its left side, I jumped on it as I had before.

Now it couldn’t move at all.

“I think we’re safe, Cliston. Is your arm going to be fine?”

“I don’t know, sir. I’ve never lost a hand before.”

I took a good look around the room and Cliston had been right that this was clearly the place. There were all kinds of towering antennas and what looked like communications gear everywhere. Much of it was switched on, with glowing control screens and humming electronics.

“We are running out of time, sir. We only have an hour until the guards return for their next shift.”

He was right. I hadn’t thought it took me that long to get beat up by a robot, but we had been in here for a while.

“Hey,” I said, seeing something familiar.

“What, sir?”

“That generator. It’s the same kind that I helped the Ontakians steal from that PCC military installation,” I said.

“Do you know how to disable it?” Cliston asked.

“No. I didn’t pay attention when they took it apart. The problem is I don’t remember if the guy said it was nuclear.”

“Why would that matter, sir?”

“I don’t want to be standing five feet away when I blow up a nuclear generator.”

“Can you destroy everything else?”

I decided I was very unprepared for this. I didn’t even have any explosives.

“Cliston, stand behind me.”

Cliston did so and I took out Gun again.

“Gun, can you shoot everything in this room that’s in front of me?”

“Hello. No, I can’t do that. There are all kinds of molecules and atoms and quarks flying around. I can’t shoot them, they’re too small.”

“By the void,” I said. “Can you shoot the big stuff? Like anything bigger than you.”

“How big am I?” Gun asked.

“A lot of molecules. Like thousands. No. Billions. Maybe more. I don’t know. What can you see in this room?”

“I see the walls. And you told me that thing over there is a door. Though I can’t say why it’s a door and not a floor.”

“So you know what the floor is?” I asked, hopeful he was learning new words.

“It’s not a door, apparently.”

“Can you see that generator?”

“I’m not sure. What does it generate?”

This would take too long to explain so I holstered Gun.

With just my bare hands I began tearing apart the machinery that was out of reach of the tank. Once I had ripped the machines open, Cliston would then twist the guts and internals with his remaining hand.

We did a fair amount of damage and then I stood by the generator, not sure what to do.



“Hurry, sir,” Cliston called back to me, as we ran out of the building.

You’d think I would be pretty good at stealing power plants at this point, but I was banging into walls and doorways.

We were literally a block away when Cliston looked back and saw the PCC soldiers returning.

They didn’t seem to care that two people were running away from the building they were supposed to be guarding. And that one of us was carrying a generator over his shoulder.





CHAPTER 24




I was worried.

Not that we had destroyed equipment in a PCC building and I had a nuclear power plant sitting in my living room. I didn’t care about that so much. But I worried that Garm might have known the PCC was hacking the Dredel Led and kept it secret from me even after I asked her specifically.

True, it wasn’t the telescopes or the port, which were her main concerns, but Garm knew just about everything that happened on Belvaille. Especially since she was once again Adjunct Overwatch.

The idea that there were guards regularly patrolling a building in the city and she wasn’t aware of it, struck me as unlikely. But if she lied to me about the military being responsible for the hack, how much could I trust her on other issues? Had I truly lost her to the PCC bureaucracy?

The next morning, I was eating breakfast and I asked Cliston:

“So am I a multimillionaire yet?”

Cliston did not seem to be inconvenienced by his loss of a hand. He could probably lose both hands and a foot and still be more capable than me at most things.

“Are you joking, sir? My people couldn’t possibly know you damaged the hacking facility already.”

“Well, go tell them before war breaks out.”

“I need to repair myself first. I may require Delovoa’s assistance.”

“Delovoa is good at replacing body parts. Though I’m not sure about for a Dredel Led. Sorry about your hand, by the way. You were right, I probably shouldn’t have taken you along.”

“It’s okay, sir. I’m glad to have been of some use, however small. It also gave me a greater appreciation and understanding for what your career entails.”

“Yeah, getting injured and breaking equipment is pretty much my job description.”



The port was now officially divided.

The Navy was separated from our side by ten foot walls that we had scavenged from the many empty buildings across the city. The PCC had their own warehouse section, their own roads, their own fuel depots, their own workshops, and their own barracks filled with hundreds of armed soldiers.

I hadn’t negotiated for a barracks, but barracks they had.

It wasn’t just walls that were needed to restart Belvaille’s criminal enterprises. We had to build an entirely new set of skills from scratch.

Each Navy ship had a designated notary and a political scientist or two. They even met on Belvaille now and then to debate new laws passed by Parliament. Because as freighters and transports entered Belvaille, they were scanned by the Navy to determine if they were operating “legally.” With hundreds of thousands of conflicting laws and literally trillions of individual planetary codes, it was not easy to come to a conclusion.

Belvaille was now absolutely plugged in to the political system of the PCC. It was all anyone talked about. Who was president of what planet and what bills were inching through government. The reason we cared was because we had to understand, appreciate, and forge every official document that related to shipping.

That was the Skim.

Because of the Source-Destination Doctrine, a planet could only sell a million tons of coal to another planet that was buying a million tons of coal.

So trade worked out fine between giant, diverse, metropolitan planets, but everyone else, such as Belvaille, were starving.

But when those ships docked at Belvaille for fuel, crews, or rest and relaxation, we could institute the Skim. We would forge documents for a small portion of their cargo and siphon that off.

2% is what we figured we could steal. The Navy ships all had the original manifests—we couldn’t change those, as they were sent from the planet itself. But no one was going to go out and count a million tons of coal. Even if the ship had weights and measurements, 2% was within the standard deviation.

But we had to have crooked shippers, crooked pilots, crooked receivers. That was a lot of people to bribe. We even might need some crooked Navy if they started poking around, but that was risky.

We needed flawless forgeries. Forms, stamps, seals, and every type of paper and ink the galaxy could conjure up. We had to know all the rules so we could break them. You couldn’t just fake it and send a transport out for seven months with bad paperwork only to have it confiscated, fined, and the crew imprisoned. No one would take that risk.

All these cutthroats and gang bosses, who could barely write their own names, were now concerned with some planet’s convoluted political system 5,000 light years away.

Also, thankfully, I had a real job again.

I wasn’t holding my breath about getting paid my million bazillion credits from the Dredel Led—it still seemed too good to be true.

So I needed to work.



“Hi,” I said, smiling brightly. “I’m the Master Overseer of Belvaille and Transport Crew Relations.”

The three crew chiefs I was speaking to looked bad. Spaceship crews always looked bad. Even with all the modern amenities on long haul transports, it was just a matter of time before you stopped shaving, slowed down on your bathing, let your clothes become a mess, and overall stopped caring. There was no one to impress in deep space and the constant sea of blackness eventually took its toll on even the most fastidious of people.

It was a universal truth that the longer you were in space, the worse you looked.

These guys looked like they had been exploring a jungle for five years, crawling on their faces. They were grimy and smelly and hairy. They stared at me blankly.

“Huh?” one of them asked.

I could tell he was the captain because of his uniform.

I shook his hand vigorously.

“Welcome. Hank’s the name. It’s my job to show you around and make you at home on Belvaille while you’re here,” I said.

“We’re just refueling,” another guy said. He had a twisted face and seemed immediately suspicious of me.

“Sure. Sure. But you can also stretch your legs and have something to eat.”

“We’re not paying you for anything, buddy,” the sour man continued.

“It’s free! This is what Belvaille does. We’re a hospitality space station.”

“Since when?” the third man asked. He seemed receptive but confused.

“Oh, some time now.”

“I was here five years ago and I can’t say it was very hospital,” the captain fumbled.

“Got to keep up with the demand,” I explained. “But look, it’s free. I’m paid by the city. You don’t have to come. This is all optional,” I explained in my sweetest voice.

I admit I was a hard sell in this role. I was huge. Ugly. And despite my best Cliston wardrobe, I looked more like a professional glocken player than a welcoming ambassador.

Still, the captain agreed and the other crew members fell in behind.

I learned the grumpy man was the first mate and the third man was the head engineer.

I took them to Roll Bungalow’s. It not only had a small bar, but it was a hotel and brothel. Also, I was trying to patch up my relationship with Roll. No use having enemies if I could help it.

That’s one thing that people often don’t get in this business. They take every little thing personally and keep adding more and more names to their hit list. If you live long enough, that list will become so comprehensive the only name not on it will be yours.

About the only person I really had a gripe with was Xandale and that was because of his numerous attempts on my life. It’s hard to forgive a guy for leaving you floating in space.

As we sat at a booth drinking, I could see all the eyes in the bar watching me.

This was the first real attempt at a Skim since we put up the walls and agreed how we would do things. If I ruined this, it meant that all those tens of thousands of hours studying obscure laws and buying forgery equipment and making deals with traders could be in jeopardy. Which would also mean my life was worth considerably less.

“Man, I can’t believe how long you guys stay in space. Must be hard,” I said.

They simply drank their drinks. Except the first mate, who clearly didn’t trust me, and sat with his arms folded, looking like he just swallowed a turd.

“How long were you travelling?” I asked.

“None of your business,” the first mate said.

“From Omni-Baldego. About sixteen months,” the engineer answered.

The captain was staring openly at Roll Bungalow’s prostitutes.

“Hey, Marileent, come on over,” I said.

I had requested ahead of time that the men and women pass back and forth while we were here. Not only did it make the place seem lively, but I could gauge the crew’s interest.

The woman in question was a salty oldtimer. Big, buxom, thick. She could break a man, in a good way—and probably in a bad way, if you crossed her.

“Hey, Hank. Who are your friends?” she asked.

“Captain Reddo-Rait of the Moxbailer 3,” he said, offering his hand.

That was all Marileent needed. She gently pulled on his hand so he stood up, and he followed her out of the bar.

The crew watched their captain leave.

“So, either of you guys have family?” I asked.

“No,” the engineer said.

The first mate was still watching where his captain had gone with consternation.

“Yeah, me neither,” I replied. “Never had the time or inclination.”

I had a bunch of borrowed baby pictures I would have shown them if they said they did have family.

“You guys do a great job. A hard job. Probably aren’t paid enough—not that I’m insulting you. I’m just saying, it’s always the people at the top who make money, never the ones who actually do the work,” I said.

“Yeah,” the engineer replied.

“Look, what is it you want?” the first mate asked. “If you’re really the chief of public relations, I expect to get my kneecaps broken any minute.”

I sighed. My “cover,” as it were, was blown. Should I just backpedal or push on?

“You’re right,” I said. “I’m here to ask you a question: have you ever thought about diverting some of the goods you’re shipping?”

“You’ll get hung for breaking the Source-Destination Doctrine,” the first mate said, standing up.

I noticed people in the bar were whispering. They were watching my lack of progress carefully.

“Hold on. Hold on. I don’t mean go fly your ship to some ass-water of a city and unload. No, you’ll still make your delivery. What if your payload was like 1 or 2% light? No one would ever know.”

“We would know,” the first mate said.

“You’re hauling Chodo fragment tubing. A whole mess of it. You couldn’t count them all if you spent twenty years doing it.”

“You seen all those warships out there?” the first mate said, pointing up to the ceiling. “They have all our records. If we try and fly past them after breaking the Doctrine they’ll blow us to hell.”

“Sit down, Ollo,” the engineer said, curious what I was offering.

But I had to convince the first mate. He was the sticking point and could end it all.

“I know the warships. I live here. I’ve been on the battlecruiser more times than I care to admit. You have been scanned coming into the System. They may scan you again when you leave. If they do, they’ll just see a bunch of tubes, same as when you came in. The scans aren’t accurate enough to detect a few percent drop in cargo.”

“This is a setup,” the first mate said.

I motioned to the bartender for him to turn on the music. I then stood up and put my back to the crowd, blocking the crew from view.

The music came on, loud.

“No one can hear us. No one can see us. This isn’t a trap. This is how you make yourselves rich.”

The men were cautious and Ollo, the first mate, sat down. Not because I had won, but because the booth obscured him from view and he was smart enough to know that he couldn’t push past me.

I motioned to a courier who had been sitting to the side waiting for my signal. He walked over and handed me two things and then left.

The crew must have felt like the only ones in the bar who didn’t know what was going on.

“This is your hotel key. Your room is upstairs. If you want companionship, just ask. This…is a briefcase. Open it when you’re in your room.”

“What’s in it?” the first mate asked, so quiet I could barely hear him over the music.

“Money.”

“How much?” the engineer whispered.

“Count it and find out. If you don’t want it, just give it back tomorrow, and all this is forgotten,” I said. “If you like what you see, simply stay on Belvaille a few extra days—for repairs, or whatever—and give us access to unload. We’ll take 1,423 crates of tubing, and then you will be on your way. That’s it.”

“What if we keep the money and leave?” the first mate asked.

I shrugged.

“You have to have trust in this business or it won’t work. I have to trust you,” I replied.

I didn’t trust him, of course. And I didn’t have to.

In reality, as of now, Belvaille was a supremely dangerous city. Sure, we couldn’t kill Navy soldiers, but these guys weren’t soldiers. They were just a transport crew. There were thousands of crew members on layover here as we spoke. No one would care if one of these guys died. The ship owner, the sender, the receiver, no one would care unless the merchandise was stopped.

If they tried to steal the money they’d be dead within minutes.

There were 400,000 credits in the briefcase. That was a lot of cash. It was certainly more money than they made in a year and probably more like five years. Half a decade’s salary was tough to ignore. Hell, I would only make fifty grand if they agreed to the Skim.

Before they came into this System we knew what they were shipping by checking manifests. We already had a buyer lined up. We had priced the forged papers. We factored in the bribe. We knew my cut. We had the salaries of everyone who was helping out—all thirty or so people. And we had priced the transport and crew who would ultimately leave Belvaille with forged documents, and 2% of the cargo we took from the original ship.

Even accounting for all those expenses, there was about a 350% profit to be made. All because of the stupid Source-Destination Doctrine.

A small city three Portal hops away needed Chodo fragment tubing, but couldn’t afford a planet’s worth. Belvaille could provide it. Assuming these guys took the money.

I didn’t give them time to think or argue. I simply walked away, leaving them with the cash.

The next day, no one offered to return the money. But the crew did open their cargo hold and look the other way while heavy lifters unloaded crate after crate.

Belvaille’s first official Skim was a resounding success.





CHAPTER 25




“Is it supposed to be this tight?” I asked, sitting in my most comfortable living room chair with a giant metal contraption wrapped around my head.

“It was supposed to fit normal Colmarians, not freaks like you,” Delovoa said, adjusting the straps.

It had been a little over a week since we destroyed the hacking equipment. Delovoa had not only foraged enough materials to build the strange device sitting on my head, but he had repaired Cliston’s hand. The hand seemed to be the more complex of the two devices and we had to enlist the services of several machinists to help out.

I paid for the hand since I felt it was my fault for asking Cliston to come along on a mission. The total cost in parts and services was around 90,000 credits. Building a Dredel Led was not cheap.

“So how does this work?” I asked Cliston.

“The device will allow your consciousness to travel to the Dredel Led capital of Thaxmultaerea. I will be with you and communicate normally via talking,” he said.

“Uh, why would you mention that? How else would you be talking?”

“Because Dredel Led do not speak as Colmarians do. Not in Thaxmultaerea. Right now, you just asked me a question and I answered. In Thaxmultaerea, citizens will be able to access your memories and opinions and search for what they want. They won’t have to wait for your answers, or listen to you talk about glocken or complain that your knees hurt, they can search instantly for what they are seeking.”

“They can read my mind? I’m not going! I have a lot of secrets.”

“No one cares about your pathetic life, Hank,” Delovoa said. He was still jealous he couldn’t come along with us.

“They will care quite a bit about Hank. He is the first non-Dredel Led to be allowed inside in more than a century. And he has life experiences that my people will find fascinating.”

“But some of it’s private,” I complained.

“The way the machinery works is that your mind will hide those things you don’t wish to share. You don’t have to worry about that, sir.”

“Well, I am worried.”

“But you don’t have to be,” he repeated.

“Alright. I guess a bunch of robots are going to find out my sexual fantasies,” I said.

Cliston hooked into my brain-blaster machine and then:

“Blah!” I yelled, and fell out of my chair.

“I’m sorry, sir. The interface can be quite jarring for Colmarians, I’m told.”

“I’m not a Colmarian. I’m an Ontakian. I think my eyeballs melted,” I said, patting at my face.

“Let’s try it again, sir. Delovoa, could you please change the transfer markdown to 343?”

“Um,” Delovoa said, fiddling with the back of my head after I regained my seat.

“He doesn’t even know how this works,” I said.

“I know how it works!” Delovoa lied. “343. Done.”

“Ready, sir?”



I felt needles punching through my brain and I saw my life flash before my eyes but at a million frames a second. It stopped now and then on certain images. I saw Zeti, the dead Boranjame. I saw Garm smiling. I saw a big plate of sausages. Another plate of sausages. Thad Elon as Naked Guy. A fist punching my face. A keg of beer. My uncle Frank. The assassin 19-10. Maris-To, the former Arch Minister. Cliston.

“We’re here, sir.”

Thaxmultaerea wasn’t especially impressive visually, but you didn’t interact with it visually. It was all lights and colors and symbols.

Somehow, I just knew how to do stuff here.

I tried to look at myself but I couldn’t. There was no me because I already knew me. Thaxmultaerea didn’t show you things that were self-evident.

Cliston was…there. I tried to “see” what he looked like and I was instantly aware of every facet of his physical appearance. Like the bottom of his feet were a tacky rubberized self-regenerating surface.

I knew the square area of his fingertips and how much weight and speed they could sustain on certain surfaces without slippage—assuming he walked on his hands.

I had to almost physically lurch away to stop learning about Cliston’s fingers.

“Ugh, what’s going on?” I asked.

“You accessed me. You need to control your thoughts or you might become overwhelmed with information, sir.”

“Information I don’t need. So your hands ‘sweat?’ I never noticed.”

“It is a mild adhesive to facilitate gripping items, sir.”

“Oh.”

I had inadvertently downloaded all kinds of information about Cliston that was looping through my head. Just absurd stuff, like the dimensions of his head and the luminosity of his eyes.

“How do I not do that again?” I said, feeling I was already out of brain power.

“You need to think of specific questions. Very specific, sir.”

I absently wondered how many manuals and guides Cliston wrote over the years, feeling that would be a safe question.

“Blaugh!” I threw up.

“Sir. Are you alright? We can leave if you’re ill.”

“So…many…pamphlets! Cliston, you’re insane. How can anyone write so much? I didn’t even read them, just the titles,” I said.

There must have been tens of thousands of them. My brain was in turmoil trying to sort the data. It was too much, too fast. My head ached.

“Just relax, sir. And perhaps stop trying to communicate using the interface. Just talk. I can hear you. I’m standing right next to you at home.”

“Okay. So where are we going?”

“I want to show you around and let you explain to my people that war is unnecessary.”

“How will I do that?” I asked, exasperated.

“Just make yourself available. They will read your experiences and learn about your culture.”

“What culture? Will they know I’m an…you-know-what?”

“No one can hear you talking except me, sir. And Delovoa, who is still in the room.”

“Will they know I’m an Ontakian?”

“They won’t know anything you wish to keep personal. Let’s go to the Main Concordance.”

I saw Cliston move ahead, but I was having trouble following.

“Sir?”

“Yeah?”

“Are you eating?”

“I’m hungry. I just threw up my lunch. It’s only some snacks.”

“It is interfering with the system.”

“Fine.”

We travelled easily and almost instantaneously. We reached an area and there were hundreds of other…blobby things. I couldn’t describe them visually, but I only had to kind of “look” at one, and I immediately knew what it was.

That one was a Dredel Led specializing in accounting, currently operating in System Anoxia. That other one was a Dredel Led manufacturer who created designs for the hyposondric encypto-phlage—whatever the hell that was.

Anything I wanted to know, I instantly knew—as long as someone here knew it and was sharing it.

Of course, not everyone had the same opinions. I wondered where this “city,” Thaxmultaerea, had come from, and a dozen different theories, all extremely complex, shot into my brain. It was like I had always known them. They were part of my memory.

But Cliston was right, if I thought about too broad a topic, I would be flooded with data. My little brain spat it out or ignored it. I ended up with just weird fragments of information, disconnected.

Like I wondered about what the Dredel Led’s conception of Thad Elon was and I ended up with a huge string of numbers, a recipe for heat treating titanium alloy, and a picture of a donkey. A library of answers had been fed to me from thousands of sources, but I couldn’t handle it.

Cliston must have been “talking.” Or somehow getting everyone’s attention, because the other entities were forming around us.

And then I felt myself being accessed.

It was almost like exhaling. I just breathed out my thoughts.

Then another Dredel Led accessed me.

And another.

And five hundred more.

I was about to rip the device off my head, because it was no longer like breathing, it was like hyperventilating or having a stroke.

But then it all stopped abruptly.

I’m not sure how many people were around me. Thousands.

They all represented an individual Dredel Led. As Cliston said, one mind, one vote.

However, something approached that was truly staggering. It was a person, but it was huge. That alone was strange because all the Dredel Led were the same size in Thaxmultaerea. I tried to make a cursory examination of the giant shape, just to see what it was, and that was the last thing I remember.





CHAPTER 26




When I woke up, I was in bed.

“Cake, sir?”

“What?”

“Would you like some cake? It is vanilla with custard cream,” Cliston said.

“How long was I out? Yeah, I’ll have some cake.”

“Two days, I’m afraid.”

I suddenly remembered.

“That thing in Thaxmultaerea. Was that a Dredel Led?”

“It was, as far as I could tell. However, unlike most Dredel Led, it had one million minds. I’ve never heard of such a thing, let alone encountered one. He is named Kai’Un.”

“Kai’Un with a million brains. Is that what knocked me unconscious?” I asked.

“I suspect so, sir. You tried to examine him and the sheer amount of communication may have been too much to sustain. I was only able to partially evaluate him.”

“What did you find out?”

“He seems to be the cause for war. All his minds are pushing to declare hostilities against the PCC.”

“Why would you create such a Dredel Led?”

“I’m not sure that we did. If he was created, it must have been long, long ago and we lost all record of him. We keep track of all the Dredel Led that have been born in the last, approximately, 50,000 years.”

“How are you all born?” I asked, eating my cake.

“We are created by consensus. The members of Thaxmultaerea vote on what units we require. But more than that, we actually create new Dredel Led using our collective consciousness. As far as I know, it should be impossible to create an entity with a million minds.”

“Is he a fake?”

“He can’t be, sir. He exhibits all the capabilities of a true Dredel Led. Again, he may have been created in our primordial past.”

“What about the hacking? Could he be the one hacking?”

“He would have no need to hack into Thaxmultaerea since he can enter at will. Only a non-Dredel Led would have use for hacking into the city.”

“You’re saying you make Dredel Led by consensus? So at some point they voted that they needed you: a butler?”

“I was not created a butler. I chose this career, sir.”

“Oh. Why?”

“Because I enjoy it, sir.”

“Well…good. Did it work having me there? I know a bunch of your people were zapping my brain.”

“You were quite popular and I believe a benefit to the cause of peace. But with Kai’Un there, he casts so many votes that it will overwhelm the consensus.”

“So we’re at war?”

“No, not yet. We managed to put off the vote for a while longer. But I fear it is only a matter of time.”

“I thought there was like twenty million Dredel Led. Can’t they overrule the big brain?”

“Ten million, sir. But at any time there are only thousands in Thaxmultaerea to vote.”

“Voter apathy,” I said profoundly, licking frosting from my fingers.

“Actually, it is part of our design, we take turns voting. We do not need a full population to ballot because a properly-allocated sample correlates to the predilections of the whole.”

“I suppose,” I said, not understanding.

“But I’m afraid you will need to return to Thaxmultaerea, sir.”

“Why? Will that big thing be there?”

“He may. But you need to try and convince more people to vote against war. Kai’Un is convincing others that the PCC is a threat to the galaxy and should be destroyed.”

“Well, he’s probably right,” I said.

“But that would include destroying Belvaille and you, sir.”

“Okay, I’ll go back. I’m a bit tired, though.”

“You do not need to go immediately, sir. The voting occurs in cycles.”

“Did anything else happen while I was unconscious?”

“I asked about the hacking to see if we could get paid for completing the contract. They said there hadn’t been any disruptions in a week, but they want to see if it lasts longer. They aren’t convinced that we really halted the operation permanently.”

“How long do we have to wait? Years?”

“I don’t know, sir. Long enough for them to be certain. Also, while you were sleeping, a Mr. Boshe called.”

“He did?” I said, sitting upright at attention.

“Yes, sir, the message was confusing, but he said a Gax was in the System and you should attend him at your earliest opportunity.”

“Gax the Boranjame?”

“He didn’t say.”

“I suppose there can’t be too many Gaxes that Mr. Boshe would be interested in. I need some really special clothes, Cliston.”





CHAPTER 27




“This isn’t what I meant, Cliston.”

I was wearing another dress. This one was covered in some kind of…

“What are these things?” I asked, gently tugging at one of the shiny circles that were embroidered all over the outfit.

“Sequins, sir.”

“I look like a disco ball. A big, fat, feminine disco ball.”

“I couldn’t take the sequins off because it would leave holes all over the dress.”

“Hah! It is a dress. It’s not a battle skirt of macho-ness,” I said.

“When I was in Thaxmultaerea, I got the designs for new outfits. That outfit is the best approximation I can make of an Oolari-Hosh ceremonial robe. The Oolari are one of the few races that trade with the Boranjame,” Cliston explained.

“Does it look cool? I want to look cool. I don’t feel cool.”

“Gax may recognize and appreciate it.”

“If I know the Boranjame, he’ll tell me I’m going to die, and everyone is going to die, and we’re all going to have a lousy time doing it. He won’t care what I’m wearing.”

“You don’t want to offend him though.”

“No, you’re right. A pissed-off celestial being is not something I need in my life. Tele Zzzho that I’ll be ready for a spaceship ride to my Boranjame friend in thirty minutes.”



The thing about the Boranjame was that they could predict the future.

There were a lot of other things, I guess. They’d never lost a war; they were the most powerful species, by far, in the galaxy; they flew around in ships the size of planets and demolished solar systems; they were responsible for creating all life, Chaos, Order, mutants, flowers, and sunshine. Stuff like that.

But most of that didn’t matter to me—I didn’t even like flowers. But when the Boranjame spoke to me, they often told me the future. Just enough to be annoying.

And it was never a good future.

They didn’t say I was going to win the lottery or get laid tomorrow night. It wasn’t even bad things like my toilet was going to overflow or I was going to get athlete’s foot. No, the Boranjame told me that all life would be destroyed in the galaxy and there was nothing I could do about it.

Picture the gloomiest, most depressing person you know, put them in the form of a demigod, and have them talk down at you for a while. That was my interactions with the Boranjame in a nutshell.

I didn’t want to talk to this new guy whose title was apparently Lord Jerkface of I Hate You.

I suppose on one hand he couldn’t tell me anything that would upset me. It had already been prophesized that I was going to die alone in space, betrayed and forgotten. What could be worse? I would lose my car keys before all that?



I hadn’t seen a lot of spaceships in my time, despite living in space all my life. But The Marquor of Lunacy, Gax, the Unfathomable and Disreputable, had a weird ship.

Approaching it, it was instantly distinguishable.

It was covered in lights. A lot of lights.

It looked like a star.

It was even spherical from what I could tell. Though as we got close I had to shield my eyes.

The only thing that made it clear we weren’t travelling toward a quasar, was the fact the ship wasn’t all that large. It was about the same size as a super freighter.

They made us wait outside to dock for a good hour. Maybe to shine enough light in my eyes that I’d be blind when I finally met Gax.

His electricity bill must be outrageous.



When I finally got inside, it was no less bright. Every panel of every surface was covered in lights. I literally had to walk with my hand over my eyes and allow the Po servants to guide me around.

The Po were the slave species of the Boranjame. They looked like big mops without a handle and moved erratically and at tremendous speeds. When I had played glocken, a Po had been our best scorer despite being the lightest player on the team.

I was worried about how large Gax would be. Zeti, the previous Boranjame that had been in this System, was about fifteen stories tall. But I had once met a prince of the Boranjame who was square miles in dimension.

I entered the room that housed Gax and it was cavernous. Maybe five hundred feet tall and bright as a pulsar. And in the center was a ten-foot black crystal.

Gax was the strangest of the Boranjame I had seen. Instead of his crystal disks flying and moving and rotating around each other like enormous, disembodied clock components, Gax throbbed.

He was more or less spherical, and different segments would bulge and subside. Sometimes the upper right quadrant, sometimes the lower left, sometimes several pieces at once.

Because he was so black, it was hard to see if Gax was one piece or was moving fragments. In this ship of lights, he was the darkest thing here and reminded me of a black hole.

“Hi,” I said, waving.

The Po began setting up electronics for Gax to communicate. Boranjame didn’t have mouths or eyes or anything that could be construed as non-crystalline.

A tele screen was set up, which is the first time I had ever seen them use one. Maybe he wanted to show me an instructional video.

On the screen appeared the following lines:



Dreams of falling, touch the ground.

Hitch a ride home walking the pavement.

Dressed in clothes fit for a vagabond.

Is the Herald of Zeti an imitation?



Huh? Did he just make a crack at my wardrobe?

“Yeah. So I used to work with Zeti,” I said to the screen. “Before he died. Was killed.”



Dice roll of five, fork tines of four.

In times past my people created.

The nature of order and chaos are heinous.

Headphones earjacked into your subconscious.



I stood looking at the words for a moment and then took a picture with my tele.

“Zeti said you guys made Chaos. Thad Elon. And that caused life. Or something. Is that what you mean?”



Our corrections are forbidden.

Be careful who you trust.

The Agglatar were sent to ride the tides.

A breach inside your borders.



“What’s Agg-la-tar?” I asked. I could see why this guy was called an unfathomable lunatic.



Second First, End of Last.

We are all mutants, affronts to Nature.

Take my hand, see the truth.



“You don’t have a hand,” I said weakly.

I looked at the screen for confirmation, but the words faded.

“You want me to touch you? Last time I touched a Boranjame, I got fried.”

No response.

I hiked up my dress with resolve and marched forward. It took quite a while to reach Gax in the center of the room. Long enough that I felt very vulnerable. I suppose I could just run away. A pulsing sphere couldn’t exactly catch me. But his Po could, and they would haul me back.

For some reason, I expected to feel heat when I drew near Gax, but the temperature didn’t change. Still, I was sweating nervously.

The Boranjame hovered a few feet off the ground.

This close, I could see he was indeed solid and not made up of smaller plates or disks. But he still throbbed and bulged, kind of like a big black heart, except not contracting, only expanding, then returning to regular size.

I took in a big gulp of air and reached out and placed my hand gingerly on one of the least-throbbing areas.

Nothing at first.

Then I felt a sensation.

Gax wasn’t black at all. He was…every…shade…of…every…color!

It was too much for me.

I woke up later and about a dozen or so Po were dragging me away by my arms. I was on the floor and nowhere near Gax’s chamber. Had I passed out? Had he knocked me unconscious?

I just remember seeing an endless series of geometric shapes of all sizes, configurations, and colors. I couldn’t look away.

“Thanks, guys. I think I’m okay,” I said.

The Po released me and even helped me to my feet.

I checked my tele and I still had the nonsense words from Gax, the Crazy and Unhelpful.

As the Po escorted me back to my ship, I called Cliston.

“Yes, sir?” he answered.

“The dress didn’t help!”





CHAPTER 28




I was back home with Cliston and Delovoa going over the words of wisdom from Gax.

“I can’t understand why the Boranjame keep contacting you,” Delovoa said.

“Me neither. Maybe they should use you instead,” I answered.

“There’s so much I could do if I knew the future,” Delovoa sighed.

“What are the Agglatar?” Cliston asked, referring to one of the lines Gax mentioned.

“I’m showing you everything he said. I haven’t got a clue.”

“Was there a lot of smoke and lightning?” Delovoa joked.

“Sort of. He made me touch him—”

“Those kinky crystals,” he teased.

“I saw a bunch of weird lights and then got knocked unconscious.”

“You’ve been unconscious a lot lately. You should be careful not to get any brain damage,” Delovoa cautioned.

“Next time someone is going to blast me, I’ll tell them to take it easy.”

“What do you plan on doing, sir?” Cliston asked.

“Nothing! I can’t make sense of this poetry. It doesn’t even rhyme.”

“Yeah, it’s not very good,” Delovoa agreed.

“Ignoring the Boranjame seems…dangerous, sir.”

I sent Cliston a tele copy of what I recorded.

“There. I’m officially making you the Master Overseer of Boranjame-to-Hank Translations. If you can figure out what he’s saying, I’ll take a look.”

“‘Headphones earjacked’ seems to be a reference to your trip to Thaxmultaerea,” Cliston said.

“So? What’s it mean? Should I not visit the Dredel Led again?”

“As your doctor, I recommend not getting knocked unconscious for at least a few weeks. You don’t have a lot of brain cells to start with,” Delovoa said.

“What exactly did you see when you touched Gax?” Cliston asked.

“I don’t know. It was like infinite rainbows. But not as pretty as that sounds. I’m not sure what it was. Maybe it’s what the Boranjame really look like.”

“Might Garm have information about these poetry lines?” Cliston asked.

“I think Garm lied to us about the Navy hacking the Dredel Led. The Boranjame said be careful who I trust.”

“Do you believe that could be in reference to Garm?” Cliston asked.

“I don’t trust a lot of people. You, Cliston. Delovoa—sort of.”

“Thanks,” Delovoa replied.

“MTB. And Garm. But Garm is PCC now. I think we should assume she’s working for the enemy,” I said.





CHAPTER 29




I said I would help Najosa on the next raid of the PCC, even though I didn’t know what it would be.

She kind of tricked me by asking right before we had sex. I not only agreed to attack the PCC, but I said I would go on a diet, brush my teeth more frequently, and I think I promised to donate my organs to science.

Basically, I hadn’t had sex in a long while.

The Society of the Free and Easy were now hanging out in my home, looking like the angry Ontakians they were.

“What are we doing?” I asked Najosa, sure I had misheard her.

“We need a telescope,” she repeated.

“A telescope? One of Belvaille’s telescopes? Those things are mounted on the outside of the space station.”

“No one will expect us to hijack one,” Meltar, one of the technicians, said.

“Yeah, because they’re installations. They’re massive.”

“Let the technicians worry about that,” Najosa said.

“Why do you need one?” I asked.

“It’s for a job. We need money just like everyone else. But we’re hoping we can use it to coordinate activities with the rest of the Ontakians spread throughout the galaxy,” Najosa explained.

I wish I’d had this conversation before I agreed to help.



Sometime later, we were all dressed in fully-enclosed spacesuits, dutifully walking to one of the airlocks on the northwest side of the station.

It took an hour to put on all this gear even with Cliston’s expert assistance.

We clanged along, carrying huge tool chests, torches, collapsible poles, and all manner of equipment.

Exiting the airlock wasn’t easy. We had to go one at a time and it took ten minutes per person. Also, you had to have someone operating the machinery on the inside. That meant someone had to remain here.

I volunteered. At this point we had been waiting around for over an hour and I was hungry again.

But Najosa selected Alase, who was a woman bred to work with hazardous waste. Her expertise wouldn’t be required on this mission. But if we did run into a trash monster outside Belvaille, we were doomed.

Space.

It never ceased to scare the piss out of me.

Here we were, outside of the protective shield of Belvaille, at the literal edge of the space station, with nothing in between us and the void except for a hand railing that I could feel wobbling as I held onto it.

Man was simply not meant to be in space.

We had radios installed in our helmets to let us communicate with each other without cumbersome teles.

“We shouldn’t be out here,” I said.

“Why?” an architect named Shella asked.

I flapped my arms around.

“Look! What if we fall?”

“You can’t fall. You don’t weigh anything here. You’d have to jump off and disconnect your harness,” Frank chided.

“Quiet,” Najosa said. “There they are.”

They were indeed. The telescopes were absolutely enormous. They looked like half-planets squatting on the side of Belvaille, taking a crap over the edge of the station.

“How are we ever going to move that?” I asked.

It was almost beyond comprehension. They must have used a team of a thousand people and all kinds of space machinery to put those in place and now there were six of us.

“Why would we move it?” Nordan, one of the technicians, asked.

“I thought you said you wanted to hijack the telescope.”

“We’re not going to steal it,” Najosa said. “We’re just going to change its protocols so we can operate it.”

“Oh,” I said.

“Did you actually think we were going to pick up and move one of those telescopes?” Shella laughed.

The Society of the Free and Easy were all chuckling at the concept.

“These combat models have a one-track mind,” Meltar said.

“Who is speaking?” a voice suddenly called from my radio. I didn’t recognize the voice.

“Who are you?” Najosa replied.

“I am Captain Vergi-Thal of the Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation destroyer, Avengeance. I repeat, who is speaking?” the man barked.

Holy crap, we’d been talking on a Navy radio frequency—while we made plans to steal a Navy telescope!

“Hi,” I said.

Everyone on the walkway turned around and faced me. Najosa was trying to make military signals with her hands, but I couldn’t read hand-jive. Our face shields were down to protect us from the light and radiation, so I had no idea what she was trying to say.

“Who are you?” the Captain asked.

“Me? I’m Captain…AnkHay of the frigate…Long…Pause.”

There were so many ships out here and a frigate was a small one, so I was hoping he wouldn’t know I was lying. After a moment he replied.

“What are you doing on the emergency frequency, Captain?”

“This…isn’t the emergency frequency any longer.”

“Hello?” a new voice asked. “This is Captain Yolly4 of the cruiser Maridoom. What’s going on?”

Oh, great. It’s a convention.

“I was just saying that a new form came in,” I replied.

I tried to think back to all the various forms and frameworks that came through this System. I knew a lot of it because of my work with the Skim. We had to forge all those documents. But I didn’t know military forms and wracked my brain trying to think of any.

“What form?” Captain Vergi-Thal asked.

“It was a Supplemental Addendum Stroke-77.”

I held my breath. I knew that was a form the military used, but I wasn’t entirely sure what its purpose was. Maybe they didn’t even know. I just recalled the name because it was easy to remember.

“Well? What did it say?” Yolly4 asked.

“It said this frequency isn’t to be used any longer other than for…repair crews.”

“Then what is the new frequency for the ships in Subsector A30?” Vergi-Thal asked.

“Um…”

Najosa flashed her hands at me twice with her fingers spread wide and palms up.

“Twenty,” I said confidently.

“Twenty? There is no such frequency.”

Najosa put up her hands again as if to try and tell me.

“Hand-five. Ten fingers,” I guessed.

“You mean frequency 10F?” Yolly4 asked, confused.

“Exactly. I was reading the form upside down. Sorry.”

“Get your paperwork in order, Captain,” Yolly4 scolded.

“Yes, sir,” I said, and I actually saluted, I was so nervous.

“Avengeance out,” Vergi-Thal said.

“Maridoom out,” Yolly4 added.

“Uh, Long Pause out,” I said.

The radios were silent. We stood there waiting for a warship to fly by and blast us. But nothing came.

Slowly we began to reset the radio frequencies on our headsets.

“Hello?” Najosa tested. “Is anyone on this frequency? Hello?”

After waiting patiently, we figured it was okay to talk.

“That was quick thinking, Hank,” Meltar said.

“What frequency were you trying to tell me, Najosa?” I asked.

“I was trying to tell you to shut up! But Meltar’s right, you did a good job. How did you know all that stuff?” she asked.

“This is PCC territory—sort of. We see all kinds of forms and requisitions come in.”

“Let’s go,” Najosa said. “We’re behind schedule.”

I couldn’t believe she still wanted to do this after we just blabbed to the Navy.

“This seems really risky with what happened,” I said.

“No offense, Hank, but you’re very cautious for a combat model Ontakian,” Shella noted.

“That’s because he was raised as a Colmarian,” Frank said.

If everyone hadn’t had a bad opinion of me before, they did now.





CHAPTER 30




Just getting to the nearest telescope was difficult.

We were in zero gravity, had lots of equipment to move, and were a good half-mile away from the target.

By the time we had reached it and moved all the gear, I was exhausted.

The technicians had a few hours of work ahead of them, so I could relax. I simply stopped and floated. I didn’t need a seat or bed or anything. Zero gravity was actually pretty comfortable if you wanted to take a nap.

I woke up and saw Frank next to me.

“You know, you definitely look like your father,” Frank said over the radio.

“How can you tell? I have the screens down in my helmet.”

“I noticed it a while ago. I hadn’t said anything because…well, it doesn’t really matter. I mean, my brother wasn’t nearly as big as you are, or as ugly, but I can see him there. It’s kind of like he had a bad reaction to some fish, his face puffed up, and he turned into you. His hair wasn’t white, either.”

“So I’m an old, ugly version of my father?”

I didn’t say it to complain. I was simply speaking it out loud to hear the words. I remembered so little of my dad. I remember him being big and adult, probably because my memories of him were mostly as a child. But at this point, I was hundreds of years older than my father when he died.

“Do you know what killed him? You never told me,” I asked.

“They didn’t tell me either. He was still working for the Colmarian Navy. He didn’t have much of a choice, I guess. I think he died in the line of duty. They sent me his things as his last known relative.”

“I was his son. Why didn’t they send it to me?”

“No one knew where you were. You changed your name and moved to the exact edge of the known galaxy. It would have taken the blundering Navy a thousand years to find you. It took me a while to track you down, but then I mailed you his belongings.”

“He only had his uniform and pistol?” It seemed like a paltry life’s savings.

“No, he had a lot more stuff. But I couldn’t exactly mail you his house and I was worried if I sent cash, it would get stolen.”

“You kept everything?” I asked, shocked yet again at my uncle’s dishonesty.

“No, I sold it. I didn’t want his stupid house.”

“How much was it all worth?”

“Who can remember? That was centuries ago.”

I sat there staring over the edge of Belvaille. Nothing but empty space ahead of me. I wondered what would happen if I threw Frank overboard. He’d probably land on a ship and sell Belvaille and its telescopes to some poor sap.

“And you don’t know what happened to my mother?”

“She never escaped Ontak. At least that I know of. Maybe she did and got lost. Or couldn’t find you guys,” Frank said casually.

“What? You said she was dead.”

“She’s probably dead. She wanted to stay and fight. She did stay and fight. But it was a war. Anything can happen in a war. The planet Ontak was destroyed. Anyone on it was killed. I just don’t know she was on it with certainty.”

My mouth was open so wide I was in danger of shattering my space helmet.

“Can you think of anything else you’ve told me that is completely untrue? This is pretty important stuff to me, you know. Are you even certain my father is dead?”

“How could I be ‘certain?’ It’s not like I was standing next to him,” Frank replied coolly.

“You didn’t see his casket or bury him or anything?” I asked.

“No.”

“So you’re taking the word of the Colmarian Navy, which you’ve said countless times was incompetent, to prove my father is dead?”

“If he was alive he would have showed up at his house. Or visited me. Or visited you. Same with your mother. If they were alive they could have found us.”

“Maybe they got captured or injured. Maybe they’ve been rotting in some jail cell all this time,” I yelled.

“Maybe they’re space king and queen ruling a solar system and when we find them, they’ll shower us with credits and happy times. I hate to break your fantasy, but if someone disappears in a war—on a planet that is literally blown to dust—there’s a good chance they’re dead. More than good. Your father was also fighting in that war. On the opposite side. I don’t know when he died or how. Maybe it was on a mission. Maybe it was in the war. Maybe it was in another war. But he was an Ontakian in the Colmarian Navy. You can bet they didn’t have a lot of concern for his safety.”

I floated there, stewing. My uncle was so flippant. I didn’t want to rage at Frank. He was my only connection to my past. If I pissed him off enough, he’d stop answering me altogether. Or at least charge me for the information.

“We’re going to need your help in a minute,” Najosa said. “There is some heavy lifting to do.”

A bit later, I was standing underneath ten thousand tons of plastic, steel, concrete, and ultra-density electrical cables. I had to lift a giant metal box into place on the telescope hundreds of feet up. Despite the weightlessness of space, things still had mass, and it was an effort to move the box in a controlled fashion.

“It’s going to take me six hours to push this thing into place,” I complained.

“Shut up, you aren’t alone here,” Frank said. He was helping with the pulley.

“Be quiet,” Najosa said sternly. “What’s that?”

“What’s what?” I said, turning around. “Oof!”

My back hit the railing and I flew through it at high speed. I looked down and saw a small rocket was latched onto my chest.

“I’m dead,” I said.

I didn’t say it sadly. Or “aww, damn”-ingly. I just stated a fact.

Not only was I now a quarter mile from the city, but this rocket was going to explode any second and shred my spacesuit. I couldn’t even try and pull it off because it looked like it was clamped onto me and I would tear my suit for sure if I yanked at it.

I just tried to put my legs down so they wouldn’t get burnt in the exhaust, and I waited to die.

“Hank!” My uncle cried into my radio.

I paused, certain he was going to ask me for some money before I exploded.

I was so far away the Ontakians were little specks. But I had a great view of the city.

You know, Belvaille was beautiful. I don’t use that word enough—and it’s a little late now. But with the shield, with the glowing stabilizers, with those damn telescopes, it was magnificent.

It was a good sight to experience before I died.

The rocket attached to me sputtered and cut off.

I held my breath.

I coughed.

I then gingerly pried the clasping talons open.

Did it not have a warhead? Was it on a timer? I took the missile in my hand and did my best to throw it.

It drifted slowly away.

My throw had unbalanced me and now I was spinning.

I wished to hell I had a jetpack.

I struggled to swim away from the rocket.

And then I started moving.

“Huh?”

I looked all around to see if a ship had gotten me or another rocket, but there was nothing.

Wait a minute. I could fly! My new mutation!

I concentrated, stretched out my arms, straightened my legs, and…I was flying. I had never thought of trying to fly in space. It’s not like I went spacewalking very often. I was too heavy to fly in normal gravity, but out here was a different story.

I grit my teeth and began pushing myself back toward Belvaille. I could tell I was going faster and faster. I had no idea my speed, but after some time it must have been a hundred miles an hour.

I was closing in on Belvaille and I completely forgotten about the stupid rocket. Who cared, I was flying!

“Hello everyone,” I said on the radio.

“Hank, you’re okay?” Najosa asked. “Is that you out there?”

“Yup. Be back in a second. Let me just zip on over.”

“Holy hell, he’s flying,” Frank said.

I could see the figures on the railing. The telescope looked even bigger from this angle.

“Hank, you need to slow down,” Najosa said.

Right. I had been accelerating this whole time.

Let’s see…stopping. How do I do that?

I tried to think backwards, but that didn’t work. I tried to think slowing down, but that didn’t work either. I never had to slow down before, I simply touched the ground.

The telescope was looming and I was headed right for it.

“Oh, crap.”

Bong!





CHAPTER 31




“Cliston, I flew,” I said weakly.

“Flew where?” Garm replied.

I was in the hospital—my usual room—and Cliston was standing by my bedside. Garm, with her ridiculous uniform covered in medals, was farther away. I hadn’t seen her when I regained consciousness.

“It’s a figure of speech,” I said.

“Does it translate into, ‘someone punched a hole in one of our telescopes after taking it offline?’”

“What’s a telescope?” I answered groggily.

“You know I’m in charge of the Navy on this station, right?” she asked.

“You want to recruit me? I’m in the hospital. How long was I unconscious, Cliston?”

“Um, hard to say, sir. I’d rather not trouble you with such details now. The point is you need to recover.”

“Cliston is smarter than you,” Garm said. “He doesn’t want to say how long you were out because it would correspond with when someone attacked our telescopes.”

“How would someone even ‘attack’ a Navy telescope?”

“You tell me,” she said. “You know, it’s a good thing Delovoa put security systems out there or you could have done some real damage.”

“Delovoa?” I asked, surprised. “Come on, do you think I know how to take a telescope offline?”

“Maybe not. But maybe it was your new friends.”

“I don’t have any friends,” I said.

“I know you’ve been working with those Ontakians. If you want to attack ships and bases and, hell, Mr. Boshe’s battlecruiser with your bare knuckles, it’s not my concern. But if you start messing with the property here, they’re going to make me stop you.”

“Property here? Like the building you used to hack the Dredel Led?” I accused.

“I told you I don’t know anything about your Dredel Led,” she replied. “Are you saying the Navy is responsible for it?”

“Of course not,” I said, not wanting to implicate myself further. “I have nothing to gain from messing with your stupid telescopes.”

“Maybe you wanted to impress your lady friend, Najosa.”

“Ah-hah! You’re jealous. That’s what this is.”

“What?” Garm asked, annoyed.

“I’ve finally found someone who likes me for who I am—because of who I am—and you can’t stand to see me happy. Get over it, Garm, we broke up centuries ago.”

“Why in Thad Elon’s Black Eyes do you think I care about who or what you’re dating? You dated my granddaughter and I didn’t care. I care more about who Cliston dates than I do about you.”

“Technically, I don’t date,” Cliston interrupted.

“You care enough to be keeping tabs on us, apparently,” I said.

“Not close enough, since I missed the part when you attacked PCC Navy property.”

“Oh, give me a break. Like I’m going to go punching holes in a telescope for no reason.”

“How did you end up in the hospital?” she asked.

“I…forget. I was hit on the head. I’ve been unconscious a lot lately.”

“He has, miss,” Cliston confirmed.

“I’m surprised his brain still functions. Look, I’m going to make this really, really clear: don’t screw with anything under my authority. You’re still a friend, a bad one, but a friend. This is a friendly visit—and one I didn’t have to make.”

“If this is friendly, I’d hate to see you rude. I’m not a PCC citizen. You can’t boss me around,” I said.

“You’re right, you’re not.”

She drew her pistol and pointed it at me.

“No,” I said.

Blam!

She shot me right between the eyes.

“Ow, dammit! My head is already killing me,” I yelled.

“Do you know how much paperwork I would have to fill out if you were a PCC citizen and I just shot you? But you’re nothing. I can flush all of you out into space and I could probably file it under City Renovations. Don’t cross me, Hank. You know better than that.”

Garm turned on her heel and stormed off, her medals jingling.

“You have been unconscious for five days, sir. We really need to get back to Thaxmultaerea.”

“I don’t know if my brain can take it this soon,” I said.

“If you want to prevent a war, it will have to.”





CHAPTER 32




“Did you deploy some security systems around the telescopes?” I asked Delovoa, as he was strapping the Thaxmultaerea device to my head.

“No,” he said.

“There were some rockets that fired at us.”

“Oh, wow, I totally forgot about those. I must have put them out there two hundred years ago. What did they do?”

“Almost killed me,” I said.

“Why were you messing with the telescopes?” he asked.

“Never mind. Were the rockets supposed to have warheads on them?”

“Why would I put explosives around something I was trying to protect? Think for a minute.”

“So Cliston, what am I supposed to do? I can’t have all those Dredel Led reading my thoughts, it will knock me unconscious again.”

“I have arranged it, sir. Normally, people don’t give speeches. Talking isn’t really done in Thaxmultaerea, exactly. But an exception has been made in your case because this is war, and as a Colmarian, you will have greater insights into why your people should be saved.”

“Great, an Ontakian, pretending to be a Colmarian, trying to stick up for the PCC,” Delovoa teased.

“Yeah, but what do I say? What do the Dredel Led need to hear?”

“Right now, the biggest memory of the Colmarians is the civil war. That war hurt the Dredel Led a great deal, as it spilled into our territory. Now the PCC is approaching the size of the original Colmarian Confederation and many are worried what will happen. They need to understand why this empire is worth sparing,” Cliston explained.

“I don’t know if it is,” I muttered.

“You must banish those thoughts when you enter Thaxmultaerea. I can’t stress the importance of this enough.”

“Okay, Cliston. Trust me, I care. I don’t want to be at war. Especially on behalf of a civilization I’m technically not even a citizen of.”



I was in the virtual city of Thaxmultaerea getting ready to give a speech. I couldn’t bring notes, because physical things didn’t exist here.

“Are you ready, sir?” Cliston asked next to me.

“No. But what choice do I have?”

“I’m afraid very little if we want to avoid conflict.”

There was no podium or stage or anything like that. I was just in a sea of Dredel Led…indicators, all around me. I didn’t understand any of it.

Of course, they couldn’t “hear” me talk. Only Cliston and Delovoa could, because they were in the same room with me, back in the real world.

So I was going to talk and Cliston was going to translate. The surrounding Dredel Led would then read his memory to find out what I said.

“When I talk, how long will it take for everyone to hear me? Should I pause and wait?” I asked.

“It will take nanoseconds, sir. You don’t need to wait. It will actually be counterproductive, as most of my people are not used to getting information so slowly: sentences at a time.”

I tried to psych myself up for the most important speech of my life.

“Ahem. So the Colmarian people are not perfect,” I began.

“That is already clear, sir,” Cliston stated next to me. “You need to explain their good points.”

“Do you want to give the speech? Because I’m totally okay with that.”

“My voice does not carry the same weight as someone who is actually part of the empire we may be attacking.”

“Fine. The Colmarian people are perfect—in a way,” I said.

“Sir, I already passed along your statement that Colmarians aren’t perfect. You have contradicted yourself in two sentences.”

“This is why I don’t give speeches.”

“You need to hurry up, people have things to do and this is very irregular as it is.”

“Okay. Um. No race is perfect. Not even the Dredel Led.”

I waited to see if Cliston was going to chastise me for that comment.

“Speak faster, sir.”

“Right. But even though we aren’t perfect, we try. Not to be perfect, but to be better.”

I knew the Dredel Led were huge glocken fans. I thought some sports analogies would help.

“It’s like a Twist in glocken. They are trying to hit a moving target, in-stride, avoiding the Killers, avoiding the line defense, their hands right, not overextending, not straining their muscles, not tripping on their own feet. There has probably never been a perfect throw in the history of glocken. But there have been millions and millions of great throws.”

Having imagined the game, I kind of forgot my point.

“So Colmarians are kind of like that. Trying to make a good throw—even a great throw—but knowing that it won’t ever be perfect.”

“You’re doing well, sir.”

“We’re also like stars,” I said, then I paused.

“No, not really like stars. Maybe the whole Colmarian Confederation, excuse me, Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation is like a star. It’s chaotic. It’s so big that there are black spots on one side and eruptions on the other. But it’s all the same star. It all fits together to…create life. Yeah, stars create life, right? Or make it less dark at least?”

“Maybe don’t talk about astronomy so much, sir.”

“What I do for a career, now that I’ve quit glocken, is I fix things. I fix people. I fix interactions with people. We can’t plug into each other and read minds like the Dredel Led. We have misunderstandings all the time. We get in fights and disagreements. I work to make those better. I work to make us perfect. Okay, not perfect, but I try to make that one problem go away. I partner with a Dredel Led and I would be lost without him.”

“Thank you, sir. But downplay your reliance on me or that will reinforce the weakness of the Colmarians.”

“Uh…so that’s just one example. But the Colmarians are constantly striving to improve themselves. If you judge us today, you will see an imperfect society. But I can only guess that in the future we will be better. Don’t invade us just because we aren’t as good as we could possibly be. Someone told me that without change there is stagnation and ultimately death for a species. We are changing. And for the better. Thank you.”

“Very good, sir!” Cliston commended.

I waited for applause or comments or anything, but that wasn’t how Thaxmultaerea worked. It was just the Dredel Led lights floating there.

“Sir, several important Dredel Led wish to read your thoughts,” Cliston said.

“No, I’ll pass out again.”

“It will only be three minds. They may learn some valuable insights that will help our cause,” he said.

“Well…I guess. But tell them to be gentle.”

I felt my mind racing for a second and it was done. Wasn’t so bad.

“Did they like what they saw?” I asked.

“I don’t know, sir. They are sharing the information with others. Let me see what they learned.”

A moment later, Cliston spoke urgently.

“You need to leave immediately, sir.”

“What? Why?”

“They are passing along your extreme prejudice against the PCC. You should have kept those thoughts hidden!”

“I don’t know how to hide my thoughts. This is all new to me.”

“Delovoa, disconnect Hank immediately.”





CHAPTER 33




That was it. We were at war.

My fat mouth, er, fat brain, had convinced the Dredel Led that the Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation was a dangerous entity that had to be restrained—or destroyed.

Cliston had stayed behind for the vote. He voted for peace, so did a lot of his people, but the big million-mind robot, Kai’Un, had cast all his votes for war and that was that.

“It seems unfair that one Dredel Led should have that much influence,” I said, when Cliston had returned.

“It isn’t just one being. It is a million that happen to be housed in one body, sir,” Cliston said.

“Yeah, but if they’re all individuals, they sure voted the same. That seems convenient.”

“It does, actually. I tried to scan Kai’Un to learn about his history, views, or anything at all. But his entire consciousness was marked private. I couldn’t even determine his primary function or location, which are almost never made secret.”

“As long as that guy was voting for war, it didn’t matter what I said, probably.”

“It may have mattered, sir. You could have held off the vote until more reasonable people came to Thaxmultaerea. We all take turns voting.”

“Way to cheer me up, Cliston.”

“I have three brains and I don’t get any votes,” Delovoa complained.

“I also found out that the hacking has continued and it is still coming from Belvaille,” Cliston said.

“We know the Navy is probably doing it. We wrecked that one building but it’s not like they have a shortage of hi-tech facilities. They probably just moved it. Still, with war on I can’t see any reason to want to stop the hacking. It might give the PCC a chance in the upcoming battles.”

“And even if you were to somehow permanently disable the intrusions, the contract for your services is null and void because of the war,” Cliston said.

“Eh, what was I going to do with fifty million credits anyway? Live out all my dreams?” I said bitterly.

“Part of that money was mine, you know,” Delovoa said.

“Then go talk to the Dredel Led and get them to cancel the war. Maybe you’ll do better than I did. But in other news, what should we do, besides getting a bunch of trashcans and making ourselves Dredel Led disguises in case we’re invaded?”

“I am not eager to suggest it, but I believe you should notify Mr. Boshe of the voting results,” Cliston said. “The military needs to be put on alert.”

“If they’re hacking the Dredel Led, I’m sure they already know. But yeah, call up the Navy and make me an appointment.”

“If I were you, I wouldn’t tell him it’s your fault we’re at war,” Delovoa added.



I flew out to meet Mr. Boshe the next day aboard his ship, the Armage.

He stood there with his arms crossed, scowling. He still wasn’t wearing shoes, which I thought was incredibly odd.

“I was about to have you arrested and brought in,” Mr. Boshe said, when I reached his tiny office.

“What for?”

“Didn’t it occur to you that I would want to be debriefed on your encounter with The Marquor of Lunacy, Gax, the Unfathomable and Disreputable?”

“Oh, sorry. He didn’t say much.”

“What did he say?”

“Not much, just some poetry. It didn’t even rhyme.”

Mr. Boshe looked exasperated.

“What exactly did he say? This is a Boranjame of some rank, sitting in this System, in his own ship. Anything he says is important.”

I took out my tele and flipped through to the words I had recorded. I handed it to Mr. Boshe.

“Forward this to me,” he said.

“I need your tele number.”

“Sorry, you can’t send it directly. Regulations dictate it must go to the Vice Major of Media Affairs and Communications.”

“Of course,” I said, rolling my eyes.

“I don’t make the rules. But is there anything else you want to tell me, Master Overseer of Navy and Belvaille Relations?” Mr. Boshe asked.

I sniffed in annoyance at the title.

“Yeah. The Dredel Led might be—are definitely—going to declare war on the PCC.”

“Yes, their ambassador has told us.”

“Oh. Well, that’s it.”

“That’s it? He also said you were in their capital city for the vote.”

“Well, I left right before. It’s not like I voted or anything. One brain, one vote. Dredel Led brain. I’m not Dredel Led,” I stammered.

“The ambassador also said you were partially responsible for the outcome.”

Uh oh.

“That’s probably misdirection on their part. You know, propaganda. It’s not like I’m some super-secret double agent,” I laughed.

He looked at me hard, trying to determine if I was a super-secret double agent.

“The Dredel Led are no match for us. They’re just dumb robots without the freedoms and abilities we have,” Mr. Boshe stated confidently.

I thought about Cliston. He certainly wasn’t dumb and without freedom.

“I’m not entirely sure I agree with that, sir.”

“I’m no sir!”

“Oh, yeah. Mister. But I know some pretty talented Dredel Led.”

“Are you a collaborator?” he asked.

“What? No. I mean, how can I be a collaborator? I’m not even part of the PCC.”

“The Dredel Led can’t do what we can. Be certain of that. They are just two-dimensional copies of organic life,” he said defiantly, as if convincing me were somehow important.

I knew I shouldn’t prompt him, but I couldn’t help it since he sounded so sure.

“Like what can we do that they can’t?”

“They can’t feel. Or dream. Or hope,” he said. “Or fart.”

I did a double-take at the last part. Was he joking?

“Are you sure they can’t fart? I mean, that’s just waste gas, right? Would robot farts be like heat-exhaust or infrared or something?”

“The point is: war is upon us. War with unthinking, unemotional, fake Colmarians. This is the moment our empire has been waiting for! We will finally become united and do away with all these reams and reams of paperwork and bureaucracy.”

“Well…I’m sure you all will do great,” I said. “If you don’t need anything else, I’ll see myself out.”

I turned to leave.

“Hank. Don’t you want to enlist in the war effort?”

I slowly looked back.

“Um. No?”

“I can assure you that the Dredel Led will be coming here. If not first, very soon in their attacks.”

“Why would they come to—oh, the Portals!” I said.

“Yes. If they can destroy these Portals, our empire won’t be an empire. It will be ten thousand little countries unable to reach one another. We could use you, your ship, and your experience in the coming fight.”

“That sounds…really tempting, Mr. Boshe. I promise you I’ll take it under consideration and will let you know if I decide to join up. Just for the record, if I did enlist, would I become a citizen or be allowed to vote?”

Mr. Boshe looked pained.

“No, you wouldn’t officially be in the Navy. You would be a Foreign Legionnaire.”

“Of course,” I said.

“But with war here, I’m confident I’ll be given an active commission in the military—likely as an admiral. And I will endeavor to not only make you a PCC soldier, but I will strive to make everyone in Belvaille full citizens as well.”

“Why? I mean, what makes you think anyone is dying to be a citizen? Especially if they’d be joining an empire that was suddenly under attack.”

“You have only seen the bad side of the PCC. I know that. I know it sounds hard to believe, but war brings out the best in Colmarians. The original Colmarian Confederation was at war for much of its existence and it was the pinnacle of civilization. When we’re under duress, we have to work together. We have to innovate. Don’t think of it as joining the Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation. You’d be joining the new, strengthened, purposeful PCC,” he said.

“Again, I’ll think very hard about it.”





CHAPTER 34




After starting a war and then refusing to fight in it, I felt like I needed a drink.

When I returned from the Armage, Cliston informed me that Xandale, of all people, had been by to see me. At first that made me a bit nervous, but if Xandale wanted to kill me, he wouldn’t have met my butler and given him his calling card.

I decided to hit up The Club. I dropped a tele to Xandale saying he could meet me there.

Fample was the newest coat check at the establishment. His father was Gample and his grandfather was Pample. Or Dample. I couldn’t keep them straight at this point. But needless to say, when you went into The Club, you would be met by an ‘ample’ with a bad attitude.

“Coat check,” he said.

“I don’t have a coat,” I replied, showing off my latest ballroom gown. I had grown somewhat accustomed to the dresses. They were perfect lazing around clothes. The seats didn’t ride up my backside or pinch my groin and no matter how sweaty I got, I could always hike up my skirts to vent out my legs.

The only thing that might have been problematic was dresses usually didn’t have pockets. But I had Cliston sew in all kinds of pouches and buttons. I now had more pockets than I did on a normal set of pants.

“You have to check something,” Fample said.

The Club was always looking for new ways to earn money. The mandatory coat check was just the latest.

I walked a few feet inside the club, reached down, and grabbed hold of a six-foot potted tree, and put it on the coat check counter.

“Here, checking this in,” I said.

“That’s our tree. My cousin picked that out.”

“What’s his name, Splample?”

“Rample.”

“You want me to coat check or not?”

The amples were a small species of Colmarians. He couldn’t lift the potted tree. But they were also frugal beyond belief and the five credits for checking in something was too hard for him to pass up.

“Okay,” he said, and gave me a ticket for the tree.

Inside, the club was more lively than I had seen it in years. The Skim was in full effect and people were busy doing underhanded things.

It was quite a refreshing change from when I used to come in and people would be moping around, half-heartedly gambling or watching sports.

Now it seemed like no one had any time. People were hustling around, talking rapid-fire, and arguing facts and figures and trade routes.

This was the Belvaille of my memories: lots of gainfully-employed scumbags doing scumbag stuff. It warmed my heart.

“What’s with the kilt?” Xandale asked me.

“What’s a kilt?”

“It’s like a skirt for guys.”

“I think this is just a dress. Look,” I said, lifting my hem.

“I don’t want to see your balls,” Xandale recoiled.

“No, my knees are dry.”

“Do you usually sweat from your knees?” he asked.

“I’ve got thick legs. They rub together.”

Xandale shrugged.

“Where are you sitting?” he asked.

“I just got here. I want something to drink,” I said.

“Is it true you visited with Mr. Boshe?”

“Did Cliston tell you that?” I asked. I was a bit surprised. Cliston should keep my personal business personal.

“No, there are a lot of eyeballs in this System. When a ship goes to the Armage, that’s big news.”

“Oh. Yeah, I went.”

“You really are the Master Seer of Navy-Belvaille Relations. I thought that was just a gag.”

“Overseer. It is a gag. I don’t oversee anything.”

“What’s Mr. Boshe like?”

I thought about that as I ordered some beer.

“He’s one of the most powerful people in this System.”

“One of? Who is more powerful?”

“Gax. The Lunatic.”

“I heard about him! So it’s true? We have a new Boranjame in the System?”

“Yeah, and he has his own ship. It looks like a star. You need sunglasses just to get near it.”

“Wow,” Xandale said, clearly impressed.

“So what is it you want?” I asked. I was still not a fan of Xandale, despite him trying to be all friendly.

“Roll Bungalow might have a problem with a Navy official.”

“You can’t kill him,” I said quickly. “That got you into trouble before, remember?”

“No, it’s not some sailor. This is a Protocol Officer on one of the cruisers by the Portals.”

“Oh. So what’s the problem?”

“He’s smart. Too smart for his own good—for everyone’s good. We think he’s going to uncover the Skim.”

“How? Haven’t you all been careful?”

“He’s one of the guys that watches ship traffic inside Belvaille.”

“You mean Portal Depot #4382.”

“Whatever. But he apparently has a photographic memory and knows every document, every shipping manifest, every form. We barely got past him a few times and that was just by luck.”

“Photographic memory. What a terrible person to have in that job. So don’t use that Portal.”

“It’s one of the least guarded Portals and it links to some of our buyers who we’ve already made deals with. It’s not easy to find people willing to buy skimmed products. That’s a life sentence if they’re caught.”

“Well, tell Roll Bungalow that he’s out of business for a while, until things cool off.”

Xandale was not happy with that notion.

“It isn’t just Roll Bungalow. It’s Podiver Vance. Ulteem. Procon Hobb. And a dozen more. Like I said, there are a lot of buyers beyond that Portal.”

“Can’t you just take a different Portal and reach the buyers through some backroads?”

“Hank, that would add months to the travel time. The Skim operates on a budget, you know. Why don’t you just bribe the officer?”

I cringed and reflexively looked around the club to see if anyone overheard.

Bribe a Navy official. Just the thought of it was scary. Walking with a suitcase full of money onto a Navy cruiser, surrounded by thousands of soldiers. It was not something you daydreamed about—it was the stuff nightmares were made of.

“We knew this was going to happen sooner or later, right?” Xandale pressed.

“Yeah, but I was hoping it wouldn’t be me. You go bribe him.”

“You’re the Grand Overseer of Belvaille-Navy Relations. Go relate with him.”

“If this goes sour, he’ll have to be killed. Because if he rats on me, I’m not going to jail for a century. And even barring that, there would be an investigation, and they could uncover the entire Skim.”

“I don’t know any professional assassins, do you?” Xandale asked.

“Yeah, but she’s part of the military now.”





CHAPTER 35




I was thinking about how to bribe a Navy official when I heard some commotion at the entrance to The Club.

There was a lot of talking and then suddenly the whole club went quiet.

Was it a raid? Was the Navy here? Was MTB conducting some police investigation?

I heard one voice. It was deep. It was loud. And it was…asking for donations?

“—influence peace and stability in the galaxy. I am kindly requesting for charitable contributions.”

I laughed.

Other than a prison for the terminally poor, this was probably the worst place in existence to ask for money. These were not the giving kind of people.

I had to see who this nutcase was and why he had such a profound effect on The Club.

I got up from my beer and walked around the corner. Along the way I passed a lot of people with dazed expressions. It was like they were terrified of giving to charity. Maybe they were.

Then I saw him.

An Agglatar.

The Boranjame Gax had mentioned the Agglatar in his poem. Seeing the man, I knew immediately that’s what he was. I don’t know how, exactly. I just knew. When I had touched the Boranjame and been shown the infinite colors, I think something changed in me. Apparently, I now had the ability to recognize Agglatars when I saw them.

The man stood about seven feet tall. He was an immensely muscled Colmarian male. His body was draped with chains, books, manuscripts, and symbols. It was like a library had exploded right in front of him.

To top it off, surrounding his entire form, was an otherworldly blue flame. Not one that cast light or put out heat. It was as if I was imagining it. It was there, but not quite.

He suddenly turned around and faced me, and I immediately understood why the club had gone so quiet.

I felt fear.

Not any kind of rational fear. Not a fear he was going to hurt or kill me. Just fear. I got goosebumps, a damp chill, and the hair on the back of my neck stood up. I wanted to leave immediately, but my feet were rooted in place.

“Contribute to my fund,” the Agglatar said. “I require money to complete my mission.”

I was too scared to reach into my dress pockets for some cash or I would have gladly heaped it on him.

The Agglatar grabbed hold of a nearby cringing man.

“Give me your money, please.”

The man was too terrified to even blink.

Wham!

The Agglatar punched the poor guy in the face and sent him soaring twenty feet!

“Please give me a donation,” he said to another horrified patron.

Wham!

He sent that one flying with just a backhand slap.

This guy had to be the worst fundraiser that ever existed.

I had to get out of here.

I managed to overcome my fear and take the back exit to the stairs. Seeing me move had spurred others to action and they retreated with me.

I was about to barrel out the front door of the club when I heard Fample.

“Hank!”

“You can keep the tree!” I called back to the coat check.

“No, you have to get that guy out of here. He’s going to wreck the club.”

I stopped. People jostled past me and out the front door.

“I have a firm policy regarding scary mutant-people who are capable of slapping someone across the room: I leave them alone,” I said.

“Free food for life!” Fample cried.

“What?” I paused.

“If you can get rid of him, I’ll give you free food for life.”

“My life or yours?”

“Yours.”

Wow. Food costs were some of my biggest expenses. I mostly had Cliston cook for me, but I ate out now and then. And seven plates of sausages were really expensive.

“Free food and drink and you got a deal.”

“Just beer.”

“No. Anything I want. None of your cheap stuff. Top-shelf liquor.”

Fample bit his lip. We heard the thuds of several more people failing to be charitable and subsequently slamming into walls.

“Okay, deal. Get rid of him,” Fample said.

I drew Gun and headed back inside The Club. I took the stairs because I wanted to see if I could sneak in and take a cheap shot at the Agglatar.

“Gun,” I said.

“Hello,” he chirped as usual.

“I’m going to point you at a big guy covered in books and chains. I need you to shoot him.”

“Okay, but it won’t work.”

I hated this. I was about to go into a firefight and I had to argue with my pistol.

“Why won’t it work?”

“Because he’s going to knock me out of your hand first.”

“What? How can you possibly know—”

I had reached the top of the stairs and the Agglatar was standing there. He swiped at Gun, knocking him from my hands and down a flight of stairs.

I stood with my mouth open and got punched in the nose.

It was a brutal hit, but not one that would cause any permanent damage. I had taken a hundred worse shots in professional glocken.

But the deal was, I was scared again.

I don’t know why, but I was just about pissing myself with fright. It was almost like a nightmare. Nightmares aren’t scary when you think about them the next morning, but they still manage to ruin your sleep while they’re happening.

This was just a large guy with documents chained to him. He was probably looking for contributions to build a book depository so he could stop being weighted down with paperbacks. There was no logical reason I should be afraid of him.

I couldn’t think what to do. I was too scared to run, too scared to fight.

“Hey…” I managed to squeak. “Are you an Agglatar?”

“Give me a donation,” he yelled, and he picked me up and threw me across the room.

I crashed into the thick steel wall.

A desperate realization occurred to me: it seemed that after I banged into the wall, I was thinking more clearly. Was it because I wasn’t looking at him or was it because I just had my brain rattled?

I was on the ground and I turned around to see what he was doing. He was shaking a sad little money lender by the neck.

I still felt fear.

It was possible that this unnatural fear came from visually looking at him, or maybe it came from my brain playing tricks on me. Or both.

I closed my eyes, but I was still afraid. If anything, it was worse, because I didn’t know what he was doing. I decided that he was doing something directly to my mind.

With great defiance and even greater stupidity, I stood up, faced the wall in front of me, and I headbutted the surface with tremendous force.

I felt my forehead bleeding and I was momentarily stunned.

“Give me a donation, please!” I heard, followed by the high-pitched scream of someone who was too frugal or frightened to comply.

I turned around and saw him:

“The Babbladar!” I slurred, full of concussion.

I rushed forward and the Agglatar didn’t even put up his fists.

Having just brained myself against a wall, I was not exactly fighting fit. I reached out for him and grabbed him by the face and started mashing his features, as if I could erase him with my hands.

“Free food,” I chanted.

I saw a glowing light and assumed it was just my skull splitting open. But I looked down and saw a white ball of energy in the Agglatar’s hand.

“Huh.”

He pressed the ball to my chest and I rocketed backwards, smashing aside a half-dozen tables like they were made of playing cards.

I sat there staring, waiting for a follow-up attack, but the Agglatar wasn’t interested in me. He was back to picking up the cringing and cowering club patrons and trying to get their tax-deductible donations.

I stood up and then immediately fell down. My equilibrium was slooply.

Slooply. Is that a word?

I guess everything is a word if you say it.

Wow! What a concept.

“Slooply,” I said.

I just invented a word.

I took a deep breath and tried to stand, getting my slooply feet under my slooply torso.

I charged across the club toward the Agglatar and I managed to hit him square, knocking him down. I moved so slowly that he could have easily stepped to the side. But it’s like he was completely unconcerned—or unaware—that he was in a fight.

With the Agglatar on his back, I wasn’t sure what to do next. I knew scrunching his face hadn’t worked very well.

I reached down and grabbed one of the books on his chest and ripped it off its connecting chain.

“Hah!” I said triumphantly.

A glowing ball of energy began to appear in the Agglatar’s hands.

I held the book up in front of me like a force field.

Kercrash!

I was on the other side of the club and my whole body ached.

The Agglatar finally seemed to notice me.

Another ball of light was growing in his hand and I felt I had better move.

I stood upright as the ball of light struck the wall behind me. The explosion catapulted me a good ten feet up and ten feet forward.

My brain was gone. It must have jumped out of my ear, tired of the abuse it was taking. I couldn’t think up old words let alone make new ones.

But I saw the Agglatar forming another glowing ball and I knew that was…bad.

I rolled twice on the ground, used the momentum to get on my feet, and lunged at him.

I grappled the Agglatar in a bear hug and began squeezing as hard as I could.

His arms were pinned to his sides so he couldn’t throw the energy ball at me, but I saw the light from it, nonetheless.

I hazarded a look down. In his hand, the ball of light was enormous. It was now about three feet in diameter. The one that had knocked me across the club had only been about six inches.

And it was still growing.

Gritting my teeth, I continued to squeeze the Agglatar with all my strength. I didn’t have a game plan at this point, I had a severe concussion. I just knew that I had to stop this guy and then I could go to sleep.

Then the ball of light exploded.





CHAPTER 36




“I need to take your statement,” MTB said.

I was in the hospital again. My old familiar room. It even had a placard with my name on it.

The problem with me and medical devices was they couldn’t scan me, so the medical technicians couldn’t ever tell what was wrong. Even if they knew, they couldn’t exactly operate. My skin was too thick.

So what they did was they gave me industrial-sized feeding tubes, put me on a bed that could support my weight, and turned off the lights and waited for me to die or come back to life.

In that regard, I must have been a pretty easy patient. There was no rushing around or ordering special drugs. Just lots of tubes and lots of food.

I had tubes in my mouth, my nose, and…elsewhere. I really wish they wouldn’t put tubes there, but I guess there’s only so much food you can cram down someone’s mouth.

I mumbled something that sounded a lot like, “mabla bub gra,” because that’s exactly what I said.

It took them about an hour to remove all the tubes.

“Wow, I’m like ten pounds lighter,” I said.

“So, 4,990?” Garm asked.

“What are you doing here?” I said, annoyed.

“This is my station.”

“No, it’s not. This is the non-citizens of Belvaille’s station. You just rent the telescopes.”

“Really? How much do we pay in rent?” she asked smugly.

“So my statement. Statement about what?” I asked MTB.

“About the thing you killed at The Club,” MTB almost shouted.

“Oh. He died?”

“Well, there’s conflicting reports on that.” MTB flipped through his tele. “One person said he ‘blew himself up in a shower of incandescent radiance.’”

If I still had a tube in my nose, I would have snorted it out.

“Who said ‘incandescent’? What’s that even mean? Oh! Is slooply a word? If it’s already a word, I’m going to be really upset.”

“Why were you fighting him?” Garm asked.

“Why do you care?”

“Because I need to know what dangers are around Belvaille that could hurt this installation. That guy walked into The Club, managed to subdue everyone there, put you in the hospital, and then disappeared.”

“He didn’t incandescence?”

MTB and Garm both gave me equally impatient looks.

“Is he a mutant?” MTB asked.

“No, he’s—actually he might be. He’s something called an Agglatar.”

“What’s that?” Garm asked.

“The Boranjame told me about him. He said…I can’t remember what he said. It didn’t make sense, anyway. But he’s called an Agglatar. He’s somehow connected to the Boranjame. Which probably means absolutely nothing good can come from him and I’ll keep ending up in the hospital.”

“He was trying to get money from people?” MTB asked.

“Yeah, it was the weirdest thing. He would ask for donations and then punch people in the skull when they wouldn’t pay. And he also made you afraid just by looking at him. Or him just being around.”

“How did you fight him?” Garm asked.

“I smashed my head on the wall and that was enough to forget I was afraid. I don’t recommend it.”

“Is that what that melon is?” MTB said, pointing.

I reached up and felt my forehead and there was a massive bump there.

“Oh, good,” I said. “I was beginning to worry that I was too handsome.”

“So where did this Agglatar come from?” MTB said.

I shrugged.

“Ask the Boranjame.”

“And you don’t know what his purpose was or if he’ll come back?” Garm said.

“If he blew himself up, I sure hope he’s not coming back. As for what he wanted, he seemed to want money. He was just going about it all wrong. Can’t you track what ship he came from? It’s not like a ton of transports will have records of picking up someone like that.”

“So far we got nothing. Appearing at The Club is our first sign of him,” Garm said.

“Alright. I’ll let you get some rest,” MTB said. “If you think of anything else, let me know.”

MTB left and Garm waited until he was gone, which meant she was going to talk to me, which meant I probably didn’t want to listen.

“I was thinking about what you had asked before,” she said. “About why we didn’t work out as a couple.”

“Slooply!” I yelled, hoping that would shut her up. “I said we should never talk about relationships again, remember?”

“I think the reason we didn’t work was because you’re afraid to care about anything, including yourself.”

“I care about myself. I’m not trying to end up in the hospital on purpose, you know.”

“I take that back. You care about yourself, but you don’t love yourself. You don’t love anything. If you don’t love anything, you can’t get hurt. Everything you do is about making sure you don’t get injured.”

“Um, I’m injured all the time. They got a memorial wing with my name in the hospital and I’m not even dead yet.”

“But you heal. That’s not real pain. You’re used to that. But you never even had a pet because you’re afraid it will die. Yes. They die. Things go away and you feel sad. But you feel great while you have them. You still talk about our ‘relationship.’ We dated for a few months, centuries ago. I’ve had children. I’ve loved people with all my heart. And it broke me. But I’ve lived ten times more in my short life than you’ve lived in your ancient life of caring for nothing.”

“Then tell me, smart gal, why am I constantly fighting for everyone? Constantly getting bloody and busted helping the galaxy if I don’t care?”

“You have a conscience. And you’re a great people person. It’s why I always hired you when I was Adjunct Overwatch the first time. I’m good at being behind the scenes. But you only really use your conscience when some faceless millions are in jeopardy. Then you’re happy to help. You can give your broken bones to the galaxy, but you can’t give one person your heart.”

“I’ll have you know I’m dating someone now and it’s going well.”

“The Ontakian? I’ll believe it when I see it,” she said.

“Do you think maybe we didn’t work out because you’re selfish and cutthroat? You’re working for the PCC Navy. How can I trust you?”

“You shouldn’t trust me. Just like I don’t trust you. But how is it cutthroat to want a steady paycheck? What I guess I’m saying, Hank, is that you’re emotionally unavailable, but a good person.”

“I rob people all the time. I con people. I beat up people. I sometimes kill people. I’m a thug.”

“I didn’t say you have great morals, just good ones,” she amended.

“Then why do I keep ending up in the hospital, knocked unconscious?”

“Because you’re incompetent, lazy, and have the worst luck of anyone I’ve ever met.”





CHAPTER 37




Cliston wanted me to work on trying to figure out who Kai’Un was—the big Dredel Led who had voted for war.

I told him my brain hurt too much to work with robots. That Agglatar had just about taken off my head with his last glowing ball. And that didn’t even count me bashing my skull against the wall.

But I also wanted to prove Garm wrong. That I wasn’t so good morally. I needed to do a dirty job with only self-interest in mind.

So I went around to all the bosses who were affected by Xandale’s photographic memory Protocol Officer and I started taking up a collection for the bribe.

I also negotiated my own salary.

I might have a hospital room with my name on the door, but they still charged me for visits. This job would pay fifty grand in advance with one fifty on completion. That would cover all my bills and give me reserves.

I pulled together an even one million credits for the bribe.

It was an absurd amount of cash. I couldn’t even carry it all in a sack. I had to make trips back and forth.

Staring at this giant pile of currency in my living room, I realized what a stupid mission this was.

I had to fly to a Navy cruiser, walk in dragging three shopping carts full of money, and bribe a guy who had already proven he did everything by the book.

While I was at it, I should just declare myself emperor and make it illegal to pick your nose.

But I had an idea or two.

I told the Navy ship in question that I was the Master Overseer of Belvaille and Navy Relations. It took them two days to confirm with Garm and Mr. Boshe. Once they did, I was allowed on board. Presumably so I could perform my job—whatever that was.

I wasn’t allowed in any high security areas, which was about 90% of the ship, but I could go to the cafeteria and break rooms and major hallways.

There, I introduced myself to Protocol Officer Sylvan-Fre.

He was a non-descript guy in a non-descript military outfit.

“Hi,” I said. “My name is Hank.”

“Navy Code of Conduct Section 32B, Subsection D, Subheading 227, Bullet Point 5: Officers are not allowed to fraternize with civilians,” he said.

He wasn’t rude, just official and efficient. He was the exact kind of guy you didn’t want monitoring space traffic while you were smuggling black market goods.

“I’m not really a civilian. I’m a foreigner. A non-citizen. But I’m Master Overseer of Belvaille and Navy Relations,” I said.

“Good day to you,” he said, walking away.

This was not going to be as easy as I thought—and I’d thought it was going to be nearly impossible.

Back on Belvaille, I tried to convince everyone not to use the Portal that Sylvan-Fre was monitoring until I could make a breakthrough.

The next day I visited the cruiser cafeteria again.

“Hi, what do you plan on eating for lunch today? I heard they have a mean casserole.”

It’s been my experience that if you are genuinely friendly, people have to be real assholes to totally ignore you—regardless of regulations.

Sylvan-Fre wasn’t a bad guy at all.

“I don’t like to eat anything too heavy, it makes me sleepy after lunch and then I don’t work as well,” he said.

Great, I’ll just have a fruit cake delivered to him every day. Put him in a food coma for two hours while we stream transports past him.

“That’s probably a good idea. I have some food allergies and I have to watch what I eat,” I lied.

“Well, good luck,” he said, and went off to get his food.

The next day I caught him in one of the break rooms, reading.

“Sorry, I never got your name, mine is Hank.”

“Protocol Officer Sylvan-Fre,” he said, and shook my hand. Though I could see he wanted to get back to his tele.

“What are you reading, if I can ask?”

“New shipping regulations. They’re constantly changing.”

“Yeah. I don’t know if I could keep them all straight.”

“It’s my job,” he said simply.

“Do you want to play some Oszho?” I said, indicating a simple paddle game that was set up in the break room.

“I’d better get back to studying,” he said.

“Come on, don’t leave me with no partner,” I smiled.

“I’ll play with you,” another officer said.

“Thanks,” I replied, annoyed.

It took five more days but I was finally sitting at Sylvan-Fre’s table, eating lunch with him.

We talked about shipping procedures. I knew a bit about it because of the Skim, but I mostly just asked him questions to keep him talking so I could try and learn about him.

So far, I knew he was single. He had no children. He grew up on a dull planet he had no interest in visiting. And his one sole interest was memorizing the near-infinite number of stamps, practices, forms, and laws that surrounded the movement of goods from one area in the PCC to another. He not only had a photographic memory, but he had an uncanny ability to count and deal with numbers—which made sneaking goods past him extra difficult.

“Sylvan-Fre, what would you do with a million credits?” I asked only somewhat rhetorically.

He didn’t even hesitate.

“Nothing. What could I do?” he replied.

And it hit me that he was right. It took me a week to realize that this guy was beyond bribing. If I gave him a million credits, he couldn’t possibly spend it.

He couldn’t show up wearing fine jewels and expensive clothes, couldn’t buy himself a spaceship, couldn’t even deposit it. A million credits was just a huge bale of lumpy plastic to him. He would have to stuff it under his mattress and hide it until he retired. Not only an impossible task, but one that wasn’t remotely worth the risk.

“So what do you want? What are your hopes and dreams, Protocol Officer Sylvan-Fre?”

Without even pausing he replied:

“I want to be a Protocol Manager. I want to be in charge of people, not just operating controls and inspections all day.”

As nice as this guy was, and as brilliant as his mind was, I didn’t think he would make a good supervisor of people. He was great at taking orders, not so great at giving them, I felt.

Still, I had a million credits to secure his promotion.

I felt if I could get Sylvan-Fre out of the way, whoever took his place would surely be substandard by comparison. Or at the worst, merely above average.

The bosses back on Belvaille were getting impatient with me. They had turned over a lot of cash and they weren’t using this Portal, so a lot of business was on hold.

But I believed I was going about things the proper way. If I had tried to shove a million credits at him, I would be sitting in jail right now. I had to find the weak link above Sylvan-Fre and bribe that person into giving the Protocol Officer a promotion.

This wouldn’t be as easy because higher-ranking officers tended to eat by themselves and socialize with themselves. Despite my Grand Overseer status, I couldn’t reach those inner sanctums.

Still, they had to use the bathroom.

“Hi, I’m Hank. I’m the Master Overseer of Belvaille and Navy Relations. As part of our getting-to-know-you, I was wondering if anyone would be interested in a little card game,” I smiled.

“I don’t gamble,” one Captain said, and he was so offended, he left the bathroom without even zipping his pants.

A Lieutenant and Sergeant Major also left in a huff.

I was beginning to wonder if it was impossible to bribe the PCC Navy, when a toilet flushed.

A bearded Vice Colonel exited the stall and washed up.

“Card game, huh? I’m willing to do my part for Belvaille-Navy relations,” he said with a mischievous grin.

“I have to warn you, I’m not very good at cards,” I said.

“Oh. Then I’ll have to take it easy,” he replied.

It took another week of me losing money hand over fist. I didn’t even have to bribe the Vice Colonel to convince him that Sylvan-Fre’s talents were being wasted.

I just had to point out that someone with a photographic memory, who was capable of counting cards, had better things to do than be a Protocol Officer.

Last I heard, Sylvan-Fre was promoted to aide-de-camp, and became the Vice Colonel’s gambling partner. They made a tour of the fleet, playing cards the entire way. He probably made considerably more than the one million I had been willing to bribe him.





CHAPTER 38




I was on another date with Najosa. Or I think it was a date. It was hard to tell with her.

My car had been fixed from the last time I drove. I kept the car in low gear and never shifted. Going so slow, I figured I would be okay.

Najosa looked nice. Well, sexy. Though she currently had her teeth gritted and her hand on the dashboard.

“If I knew you were such a terrible driver, I never would have gotten in the car with you,” she said.

“I’m not that bad.”

“You were supposed to stop back there.”

“Why?”

“Because there was a light,” she said.

“I didn’t see anyone.”

“It doesn’t matter. You’re supposed to stop.”

“That’s a stupid rule. What’s the point of being in a car if you have to keep stopping for phantom traffic?” I asked.

“What if you run into pedestrians?”

“They’ll get more hurt than we will. They should be looking out for me, not the other way around.”

“I don’t think that’s how the laws work, Hank.”

“You said you hate the PCC. Why are you all of a sudden taking their side when it comes to regulations?”

“Traffic laws are pretty standard. I don’t think the PCC invented them.”

“Well, we’re almost there. Woops,” I said, as I side-scraped a parked car.

I managed to park without much trouble. I bumped into the wall in front of me, but it didn’t do any damage.

Najosa dashed out of the auto and stood by the door to the restaurant, as if she was afraid the car would attack her.

There weren’t a lot of fancy restaurants left on Belvaille. Not only did people not have money to afford it, but good food wasn’t delivered here.

Still, there were two high-end restaurants that bought everything off the black market. They weren’t open every day because they simply didn’t have enough food.

But for two days, and a king’s ransom, you could treat yourself to some pretty magnificent meals that were reminiscent of Old Belvaille.

We got off to a bad start in the restaurant when the doorman tried to take Najosa’s jacket.

He walked up behind her, taking her by the shoulders. She turned around and gave him a chop to the throat.

As the poor man was on the ground gurgling for air, I had to comment.

“How do you know so much about driving but so little about everything else?”

“He grabbed me,” she said.

The whole restaurant was looking at us.

I smoothed things over with the maître d' by giving him two hundred credits. Great, this meal was already going to be expensive.

My goal for coming here was a few fold. I wanted to show Najosa that I wasn’t a huge slob and could eat normal food like a normal person. I wanted to show her that maybe Colmarians weren’t all bad, by taking her to a place with a little class and ambiance. And I wanted to keep stuff in our mouths so we didn’t have to talk much. Talking was our least successful activity up to this point, so I wanted to minimize it.

The restaurant was exquisite. There were glorious artworks everywhere, fine carpets, expensive metals coated every surface, and even the tablecloths were, I don’t know, fancy.

I saw Najosa taking it all in with a critical eye.

When we were seated, I leaned over the table.

“So what do you think of the place?”

“I think if we sold all these useless goods, we could buy a lot of weapons,” she said.

“Don’t go stealing anything,” I cautioned. “Just try and enjoy yourself.”

Najosa put a big satchel on the table.

“That’s for you,” she said.

“You got me a present?” I was shocked. Maybe Najosa was romantic after all.

I opened the brown wrapper and found it was stuffed full of money.

“That’s your share from the work we did on the telescopes.”

I quickly covered the cash.

“Shh!” I hissed. “I thought it didn’t work. You know, after I flew into the dish.”

“It turns out that you smashing into the telescope worked well. The Navy thinks it’s broken so they haven’t discovered that we tapped into it.”

“You guys are broadcasting to Ontakians spread out across the galaxy?” I asked.

“Not yet. It’s being used for other things. But that is our ultimate goal. We’re not sure if anyone will be listening if we broadcast. Your share came to 30,000 credits.”

Nice. Paying for dinner wouldn’t be so hard after all.

I ordered about a third of the food I would normally eat and when it came, I just poked at it daintily.

“You’re eating too much,” she said to me.

“I’m hardly eating anything. I’m surprised they haven’t kicked us out for how loud my stomach is grumbling.”

“That’s your third meat pie.”

“Yeah, but I’m not even halfway done,” I said.

“Well, hurry up. I don’t like this place. Too many Colmarians staring at us.”

“They aren’t staring. Maybe they are admiring you. You’re a lovely woman.”

Najosa sulked.

I began scooping the food into my mouth as I thought how to salvage this date.

It was not long after that I realized I had eaten too much, too fast, and I couldn’t get it down. Finding you can’t swallow is an awkward situation when you’re trying to impress someone.

I made some mild coughs and patted my stomach. I then reached for the water and tried to drink, but it spilled out of my clogged throat all over my chest.

“Are you ill?” she asked me.

Okay, I was really choking!

I hammered the table with my fist and the whole tabletop slammed to the ground along with all the dishes and food.

I clutched at my throat trying to mash the food into a smaller size or otherwise squeeze it down to my stomach, but nothing was working.

“Hank!” Najosa said.

She went around behind me and began hammering on my back with her combat-ready fists. It was like I was drowning and someone started kicking me in the face.

I tried to shoo her away with one arm as I stood up and stumbled around, one hand still on my throat.

I had never choked before and this might be my last time. It was an odd sensation, suffocating on dry land. The mild embarrassment had long ago vanished and now I was completely and utterly panicked.

People were around me. Several women were screaming.

One man was trying to undress me while I heard another say:

“He’s too fat!”

Two men were punching my gut and Najosa was still hammering on my back.

I could only think that I had survived missiles, rockets, napalm, explosives, Boranjame, Therezians, Gandrine, tanks, and more bullets than anyone could possibly count. Yet despite all that, I was going to die from three mouthfuls of a meat pie.

I fell to my knees, knocking over another table.

I was blacking out.

I wanted to tell this cruel, cruel world to Eat Suck, Suckface, but only drool came out.

A metal railing was placed on the ground in front of me.

“Now,” I heard Najosa say.

What felt like a dozen people jumped on my back and shoulders and I was flung forward into the railing, where it hit my abdomen.

Huagh!

I was gasping and looking down at the pile of food that had choked me.

“How did he even get that in his mouth?” someone asked.

When I had recovered, I found that half the restaurant had been destroyed as I groped and flopped around and people took turns beating me.

I could at least partially cover my humiliation by offering to pay for the damages—with cash. I tried to pay everyone who helped, no matter how counterproductive their efforts had been. Despite their protestations, I ended up giving away about 10,000 credits from my satchel. It served me right for choking in a fancy restaurant instead of some greasy noodle joint.

Najosa was mercifully quiet as we went to the car.

“I lost my keys,” I said.

“Did you eat them?”

“No. Can you go back inside and ask if I dropped them?”

“I think if either one of us goes back in there they’ll shoot us.”

We had an eight-mile walk back to my place and I wasn’t looking forward to it.

“We’ll run,” Najosa said.

“I’m not really cut out for running,” I began.

“I have some daxapronal. It will help.”

“Are you kidding? I almost choked to death. I don’t want to go on a rampage.”

“I’ll only give you micrograms. I’ve administered this many times.”

“How do you have so much daxapronal?” I asked.

“We get it from the Rettosians. There’s still some in this System. Though not a lot.”

“Rettosians? Where do they get it?”

“They invented it. Back when we were slaves of theirs, they used to give huge doses to our combat models to help us in battle.”

“Yeah, but I’m a mutant Ontakian. It doesn’t work the same on me,” I said.

“I know. Here.”

She handed me a small tab of paper.

“Put it under your tongue. And save this for later, in case you need it.”

She handed me about two dozen tabs in a plastic bag.

“Need for what? This could drug an army,” I said.

Najosa put a tab in her mouth.

I reluctantly did so. The date couldn’t get much worse.

I had wanted to go play miniature golf on top of Wallow. I set up a little course on his back with holes where his battle scars were. I thought it would impress Najosa to be standing on a dead Therezian.

Instead, we ran home. Screaming and yelling and stripping off our clothes.

We got to my place and we had sex.

Violent, wrathful sex. I’ve had angry sex before. Revenge sex. Payback sex. I-used-to-date-your-grandmother sex.

But this was something different. We were both on the same wavelength. Both of us a jumble of flexing muscles and sweat and fury.

The next day she was gone. My legs felt like I had sprinted across the city while under the influence of an obscene amphetamine. My throat felt raw and ragged, like I had tried to swallow a mess of barbed wire. My whole body was fatigued and I was covered with bruises.

And I had a monster, absolutely monumental headache.





CHAPTER 39




I was in the Ontakian club, the Society of the Free and Easy, having a drink that tasted like dirty socks rinsed in pure alcohol.

At least it gave me a buzz, which was more than I could say for the conversation.

“What am I doing here?” I asked Najosa. We were alone, the rest of the group off doing whatever they were doing.

I didn’t feel especially comfortable in the club, despite being an Ontakian. My original joy at finding there were so many other Ontakians left in the galaxy gave way when I learned that most Ontakians were surly, sour, and prone to punching me in the face when they danced.

My attempts to learn about Ontakian culture and history were met with dull stares. Most Ontakians considered culture and history to be foreign concepts.

Frank was still the only one who seemed to know anything of substance about our past, and he tended to leave out huge sections—like the fact my parents might still be alive.

“You’re here because we’re meeting one of our patrons,” Najosa said.

“Patron? For your music?” I asked.

“No,” she said, without elaborating.

“What the hell is this drink made out of?” I finally asked.

“It’s a traditional beverage. Ethanol filtered through perspiration-soaked cloth that has been worn by combat or labor Ontakians,” Najosa said.

“Holy crap, it is alcohol and dirty socks! Why would anyone invent this drink?”

“When we were slaves, we had to make do with what materials we had. We found that the sweat from certain types of Ontakians enhanced the flavor,” Najosa continued.

“Enhance is a generous word. Maybe my taste buds are mutated too, because this stuff is terrible.”

I hesitantly took another sip. The drink was expensive. I didn’t want to waste it.

Suddenly I realized the club had gone completely quiet. The music was off. The talking had stopped. Everyone looked downcast and introspective.

I panicked and wondered if the Agglatar had resurrected himself and followed me to this club, looking for donations.

But I saw a small form making its way through the crowd.

It was a man. Old. And he was in a wheelchair.

“No way,” I mumbled.

“Greetings, Ontakians. I have come with the details of your next assignment,” the old Rettosian said.

It was him! It was the ancient Rettosian who had mutated the entire System some years ago. Who had created a clone army to fight in the civil war. Who had the ability to teleport things across the System. Who had created mutant glocken teams to play for Thad Elon.

I didn’t know his name—because he hadn’t told me and I didn’t ask. Delovoa had shot and killed him, but we assumed it was only a clone.

I could tell right away it was him.

He wasn’t as old as he had been before, but he was still ancient. So maybe a thousand years old instead of two thousand. He was shriveled, his fingers crooked, and his face was sunken from missing all his teeth.

Rettosian skin is liquid, flowing across their bodies like a colorful ocean. But this man was so old his skin had dried and crusted. Only a few pathetic trickles of skin dripped across his face. It almost looked like he was slowly melting.

“Hello, Rettosian. This is one of the new recruits that we’ve been using,” Najosa said, indicating me.

The old man looked at me and I felt a chill. This was one of the most brilliant people I’d ever encountered. He said he not only built my talking Gun, but that he built me. That he was one of the creators of the whole Ontakian species!

He only looked at me for a second.

“I don’t care who you use or how. I just want results,” the old man said.

“Of course,” Najosa answered, and I could tell she was at least as intimidated by the old man as I was.

“I have your payment…here,” the Rettosian said, feebly pointing to the side of his wheelchair.

Najosa walked to him and leaned down. She took a jug of liquid and a briefcase from a compartment on the side of the chair.

“One million credits and a gallon of daxapronal,” he said.

“And you need us to attack a cargo ship?” Najosa asked.

“No. I need you to deliver three large shipping containers from the transport BA-553J9 out of the U.M.A. System. It is carrying electromagnetic components.”

“Three containers?” Najosa confirmed.

“Three large shipping containers,” he said.

“We’ll take care of it,” Najosa replied.

Without another word, the old Rettosian turned his chair and puttered back out of the club. All the angry, synth-clad club goers scurried out of his way.

“So that’s our next mission,” Najosa said.

I didn’t know where to start.

“That guy…what’s his name?” I asked.

“I don’t know. He’s an old Rettosian.”

“I know that. Do you also know he maybe created the Ontakians? And he mutated all of Belvaille? And he worked with Thad Elon?”

“So you’ve met him before?” she asked.

“Met him? I killed him!”

Najosa clearly didn’t believe me.

“He didn’t seem very angry about it.”

“It was his clone. I don’t know how clones work. Maybe he didn’t know me. Maybe the clones don’t talk to each other.”

“So what are you saying, Hank?” Najosa stated, oblivious.

I was about to blow my brain pan.

“He’s…bad news! A bad, bad person!”

“Bad person according to whom?” she asked.

“Like…the galaxy! He mutated billions of people. He helped start the Colmarian civil war.”

“That hardly makes him bad in my book. The mutations, maybe. Though I wouldn’t mind being able to fly.”

I couldn’t believe Najosa was being so flippant about it.

“I can only fly in space—and then I can’t stop. But that’s not the point. What if he created us? Created us as slaves?”

“You just saw him pay me—in advance. You don’t pay slaves. Once we gained our freedom, the Rettosians have always treated us with respect.”

“So what is he going to do with about 360,000 pounds of electronics?” I asked.

“Is that how heavy the shipping containers are?” she replied.

“Yeah. Wait. So that’s why you wanted me here? I know about ships and cargo because of my work on the Skim.”

“I won’t deny you’re a valuable member of this team, Hank. You have a lot of assets. You’re just a bit overweight.”

“Okay. I get it. I’m fat. But I also know who that Rettosian is. And I know for sure he isn’t going to use those electronics to make…I don’t know, something not incredibly dangerous.”

“He has built us a number of tools. And helped us in our efforts against the PCC. He has earned our trust.”

“You don’t even know his name!”

“What is his name?” Najosa asked.

“How should I know? I didn’t talk to the guy, I just killed him. Wait, is he the one that comes up with all your plans and targets for attack?”

“Not all of them. But our ideals are aligned. Everything you’ve said about him reaffirms he is a powerful enemy of the Colmarians. What is your concern?”

“I guess…that he’ll build a battleship and kill us all. Or something.”

“That doesn’t make sense, Hank. We’ve been working with him for years. Without his support, the Society of the Free and Easy wouldn’t be where it is today.”

“And where is it? I don’t even understand that.”

Najosa held up the briefcase.

“A million credits richer, for one.”





CHAPTER 40




“How much do you trust this Najosa lady?” Delovoa asked.

I had brought him together with Cliston to discuss my recent encounter with the ancient Rettosian scientist.

“I guess I trust her a lot, actually. For once it’s great to be dating someone with no secret motives. I think if she wanted me dead, she’d say, ‘hey, I want you dead.’ Then would kill me. She’s not like Garm where I have to worry about what’s going on behind the scenes.”

“But sir, what does the appearance of the Rettosian mean? You said he was responsible for making Thad Elon’s Championship glocken team?” Cliston asked.

“He did all kinds of stuff. He makes Delovoa look stupid and benevolent by comparison.”

“Hey. I did manage to kill him,” Delovoa sulked.

“Yeah, before he could tell us anything. And as I recall, you had to empty a whole pistol at him because you couldn’t hit a geriatric scientist in a wheelchair.”

“I never said I was an expert marksman. You’re the one with the auto-aiming gun.”

“Perhaps Gun might have information about the man?” Cliston offered.

“Wow, that’s a really good idea. Gun,” I said, holding him up.

“Hello? Yes?” he replied.

“Do you know anything about a really old Rettosian? You met him once before and he…kind of commanded you to shoot me. He might have made the Ontakians.”

“I don’t know what most of those words mean,” Gun answered pleasantly. “You mentioned ‘Rettosian’ before, but I don’t remember if we ever settled on what it is.”

I returned Gun to my holster.

“So back to the scientist,” I said.

“I object to you calling him, ‘the scientist,’” Delovoa said.

“Well, come up with a name. Old Guy.”

“Bird Bones,” Delovoa said.

“Rettosian Clone and Mutant Manufacturer,” Cliston said.

“Wheelchair?” I asked.

“Dumbface,” Delovoa tried.

“Thad Elon’s Assistant?” Cliston said.

“That’s good. Thad’s Friend! I mean, being a friend of the immortal Thad Elon is description enough. And if we just say ‘Thad’ no one will necessarily know who we’re talking about,” I said.

“Yes, Thad is a fairly common name,” Delovoa agreed.

“Okay, then: Thad’s Friend. What should I do about him?” I asked.

“Kill him. Again,” Delovoa declared. “You know he’s doing something. He doesn’t seem the kind of mad scientist who would retire.”

“No, but, first of all, killing him doesn’t seem to do a lot. He’s probably got more clones.”

“Find them and kill them,” Delovoa said.

“Look, I’m not an assassin.”

“Certainly he deserves a good killing for mutating all of Belvaille, to say nothing of all the other things he’s done,” Delovoa argued.

“Oh, no, he deserves being deaderized. I just don’t want to spend the rest of my life hunting super genius clones. All he has to do is teleport me into space once and I’m gone. I think we need to figure out what he’s up to.”

“Yeah, do that and then kill him,” Delovoa said.

“You kill him. You’re the one who shot him before.”

“You said he has an Ontakian army. I won’t be able to get near him,” Delovoa explained.

“We’re not an army. We’re more of an anti-social fraternal order.”

“Be careful, sir. Thad Elon is extremely dangerous and ‘all’ he has is immortality,” Cliston asked.

“So?”

“It seems to me the Rettosian scientist, Thad’s Friend, has a kind of immortality himself, with his multiple clones. And he also has access to vast technological resources. He may be even more dangerous than Thad Elon,” Cliston stated.

“Thad Elon is billions of years old and destined to end all life in the galaxy. It’s hard to get more dangerous than that. Why don’t I do Thad’s Friend’s mission? That way I’ll be able to see what he’s planning. Oh, and I’ll get paid.”

“We could use the money, sir,” Cliston added.





CHAPTER 41




There used to be a handful of Dredel Led in Belvaille. However, they all left when the population cleared out. Cliston was the only Dredel Led that still resided in the System.

So as I ate my breakfast in The Club I was more than a little surprised when I heard a voice declare:

“You are all hereby prisoners of the Dredel Led empire!”

I looked up from my plate of sausages but didn’t see who had spoken. The Club had come to a virtual standstill as everyone gazed around, searching for our assailant.

“You. Obese Colmarian. Drop your weapon,” I heard the person continue.

I turned toward the voice.

Underneath my table stood a six-inch tall, silvery robot. He had glowing yellow eyes, his limbs were mostly rectangular, and he wore a red cape, that I could probably use as a napkin.

“Huh?” I asked dumbly.

A number of people started to gather around to meet our new metallic overlord.

“Yes, you. Drop your weapon or be destroyed.”

I looked around at the thugs and counterfeiters and cutthroats, hoping they might know a suitable response, but they were as confused as I was.

“You asked for it, fleshling!”

I heard a poingk sound, and a little plastic projectile hit me in the knee with about as much ferocity as a kitten’s teardrop.

“I, uh, who are you?” I asked.

“I am the Emerald Crusader,” he stated with gusto.

This struck me as even more odd since nothing on him was emerald unless I was severely color blind.

“Oh,” was all I said.

“What’s he want, Hank?” one of the freighter jockeys asked me.

“How should I know?” I replied.

“You’re coming with me,” he said, and he walked over and tried to grab hold of my ankle.

I lifted my leg and he was still clutching me. I couldn’t even feel him. I shook my leg but he doggedly hung on.

“Stop resisting,” he urged. “You’re only making it worse.”

“Hank, where did you get that?” an off-duty bartender asked curiously.

“I didn’t. I don’t know,” I said. I was getting annoyed that people thought it was mine.

I stood up and stomped my foot on the ground, but the little crusader held onto the hem of my dress.

“Is that a weapon?” a thug asked me.

I reached down and physically pulled him off, ripping a patch from my clothes. I shook my hand and dropped him and hurried to the front exit.

“Stop, fat one! Come back here!” He yelled.

I reached the exit and tried to hurriedly get my coat from Fample.

“Hey, they charged me for my food,” I said. “I’m supposed to have a lifetime supply of free food and drink.”

“You were supposed to get that guy out of here, not destroy the whole second floor,” Fample argued.

“You didn’t say anything about that. Besides, I didn’t destroy it. He did,” I said.

“When we repair the floor, I’ll think about giving you a discount on food,” he said.

“I am placing you under Dredel Led custody. Get on the ground and put your hands behind your back,” the Emerald Crusader said.

“What’s that?” Fample asked, looking over the coat check counter.

“I don’t know. Maybe a Dredel Led,” I mumbled.

“We’re at war with the Dredel Led. Aren’t we?” he asked, alarmed.

“The PCC are at war. Belvaille isn’t part of the PCC,” I said. Then I turned around and addressed the little robot. “Hey, you’re in the wrong city. We aren’t part of the Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation. You have no fight with us.”

“Silence, wet-sack! Do not try and distract me from my purpose.”

“What are you going to do with him?” Fample asked. “It might be against the law to have a Dredel Led.”

“I don’t have him. He attacked my ankle.”

“Well, get him out of here. I don’t want the Navy causing trouble.”

“He’s not…” I started, but realized there was no point in continuing.

I walked as quickly as I could out of The Club and to my car.

Starting the engine, I felt like I had outpaced the tiny robot or he had grown bored of me. I adjusted my side mirror and I saw the Emerald Crusader fighting with my left rear tire.

I opened the door and stuck my head out.

“Move!” I yelled.

“I’m going to destroy your ship,” he said.

I watched him for a moment, and I was pretty sure that even with infinite time, he wouldn’t be able to do more than scratch the paint.

I sighed and got out of my car. I walked over and picked up the Emerald Crusader. He only weighed about ten pounds.

“Unhand me or face my wrath,” he shouted.

I set him down out of the way and got back in my car. However, the little guy ran back to my tire and was punching and kicking at it again. I was pretty certain that if I ran over him, he’d be destroyed. And while I wasn’t terribly unhappy with that prospect, I didn’t want to murder a harmless alien simply because he was slightly irritating.

I exited my car again, picked up the Emerald Crusader, and got shot in the nose with a plastic dart.

“Die!” He screamed.

This time I carried the robot a good fifty feet away and put him on the roof of another car. Maybe he would be satisfied trying to destroy it. If nothing else, he would hopefully need some time to climb down.

I ran back to my car, threw it in reverse, and sped away.

I parked in front of my house and got out. I would need a few drinks before I told Cliston what had transpired. Maybe he would have an idea what it was about.

“Coward! You can’t escape from me that easily,” I heard.

The Emerald Crusader appeared from underneath my car and ran at me, his red cape flapping behind him like a toy flag.

“Well, come in, I guess. Maybe my butler can talk some sense into you,” I said, defeated.

I didn’t have to carry him in because he was latched onto my ankle again.

“What is that, sir?” Cliston asked when I walked inside.

“I was hoping you could tell me. He says he’s a Dredel Led.”

“Join me, comrade. Help me subdue this bulbous Colmarian,” the Emerald Crusader said.

Cliston bent over to take a closer look at the robot, who was currently holding onto my socks and kicking at the back of my shin.

“Excuse me. Am I to understand that you are a Dredel Led?”

“Yes. My primary function is to destroy the Colmarian empire.”

Kick kick kick.

“Colmarian empire?” I asked. “You’re a little late, the Colmarian Confederation was destroyed in the civil war. This isn’t even PCC territory.”

“Do not try and confuse me,” he replied.

“Can’t you hook up to his brain and see what he knows?” I asked Cliston.

“We can only do that in Thaxmultaerea,” he said. “May I ask what your inception date was?”

The Emerald Crusader spat out a series of numbers and letters in rapid succession.

“Sir, this Dredel Led was only created a week ago.”

“So, he’s young. Will he grow bigger?”

“No, sir. What it means is he was created after the vote to go to war. He was likely intended as some kind of military unit,” Cliston said.

“He already made that clear. But I’ve seen combat Dredel Led before, and they were pretty damn dangerous. Do you think he has a bomb or something?”

“Unlikely. But my point is, I think he may be”—and Cliston lowered his voice politely—“flawed.”

“You’re telling me stuff that’s obvious, Cliston. Unless there are another million of him, he’s not going to be doing much harm.”

“But sir, Dredel Led are created from the collected consciousness of Thaxmultaerea. Clearly there was some desire to create a soldier. But why it turned out like…”

“His name is the Emerald Crusader.”

Cliston paused to stare at the struggling Dredel Led.

“Why he turned out like that is the question. He clearly isn’t suited to his stated function. This leads me to believe there was some kind of malfunction during his creation.”

“Like a machine blew a gasket?” I asked.

“I’m speaking of Kai’Un, sir. It was his million minds that led us to war and his million minds would play a significant role in the creation of any new Dredel Led,” Cliston explained.

“I don’t understand. Is Kai’Un defective? Is that why he knocked me unconscious when we hooked up minds?”

“No, I believe his sheer number of consciousness did that. But as I said before, there is no record of the Dredel Led ever creating a being like Kai’Un. If he is ancient, perhaps his minds aren’t suited to building modern Dredel Led.”

“Or maybe he isn’t a Dredel Led?” I asked.

“There has never been an instance where another species has created a Dredel Led facsimile. Especially one capable of operating in Thaxmultaerea.”

“I could go to Thaxmultaerea and I’m not a robot. Maybe it was a million-minded Colmarian using the same tool I did.”

“That seems unrealistic. But perhaps it was a million individuals. That might explain it.”

“But this is actually good. Your army is going to be full of misfits. That should help the war effort.”

“Sir, although I do not wish war upon us, I also don’t wish to see my race grow extinct.”

“You won’t be extinct.” I held up my leg as proof, where the Emerald Crusader continued to scratch at me. “You’ll just be a lot shorter on average.”

It was then we were interrupted by someone yelling on a bullhorn from outside.

“You in there. This is the PCC Navy. We have reason to believe there are Dredel Led on the premises. If you are able, please exit the building with your hands raised. If you are captive, please exit the building with your hands lowered,” the voice demanded.

“Oh, great. This is just what I need,” I said.

“Sir, they will likely kill the Emerald Crusader if they capture him. We are at war,” Cliston said.

“I’m not worried about him, I’m worried about you.”

“Perhaps I could go and explain the situation to them? I am a deductive objector and not taking part in the war.”

I scanned outside the front door and saw what looked like at least twenty military personnel, all armed and taking cover behind their cars.

“I don’t think they’ll care. Let me go out. You find somewhere to hide.”

“One moment, sir.”

Cliston reached down and removed the Emerald Crusader from my leg.

“Traitor!” the tiny Dredel Led yelled.

I adjusted my clothes as best I could and put on my negotiating face. I exited the front door with my hands between up and down, as I couldn’t remember which signified what.

“So guys, here’s the situation—” I began.

“Open fire!”

There were a lot more soldiers than I had thought and they all began peppering me with bullets. I covered my face with my right arm and my groin with my left hand.

It’s been my experience that groups tend to stop shooting after a while when they realize I’m bulletproof. In the immediate aftermath of their shock, that’s when I get to work my diplomacy magic and try and come to a reasonable solution.

But these guys seemed to have an infinity of bullets and an infinity of desire to use them.

I stood there for a good thirty seconds as they took turns reloading and emptying their guns. I was probably putting a dent in the galactic-wide market price of ammunition.

Finally, I realized these guys weren’t going to stop. They had been given an order to shoot, and like good PCC drones, they were going to shoot.

“Can I ask who is in charge here?” I tried to yell over the gunfire. “I think there has been a misunderstanding,” I continued. “Is anyone listening? I’m the Overseer of Navy and Belvaille Relations or something,” I said.

With thirty or so guns firing simultaneously it was probably impossible to hear me. I gave up and went inside, covering the back of my head and my butt as I went.

“Sir! You’re covered in bullets,” Cliston said, alarmed.

“Imagine that. Yeah, help me scrape them off.”

Cliston came over and began to pick off the mashed bullets from my skin. They hadn’t hurt too much, but I’d look like a bruised leopard in the morning.

I noticed that the Emerald Crusader was casually sitting on one of my tables and leafing through a tele screen.

“Is he all tuckered out?” I asked, wondering why he wasn’t attacking me.

“No, sir. Forgive me, but I took the liberty of explaining to him that you aren’t a Colmarian, you are an Ontakian.”

“I’m not at war with the Ontakians,” the Emerald Crusader said.

“Oh. I guess it’s okay you told him. Saves my ankles.”

“What are we going to do about the police?” Cliston asked.

“They aren’t really police. They’re Navy. If they were cops I could talk to them. Hell, I could bribe them. There’s nothing I can do with those guys.”

“Perhaps a show of force would give us liberty to leave,” Cliston said.

“Yeah. Eventually they’re going to try and break in.”

“And that may damage all your furniture,” Cliston said.

I pulled out Gun.

“Gun. You there?”

“I can only guess that I am. I cannot confirm the nature of the universe or even my own existence,” he replied.

“That’s fine. Remember how I explained what guns are?” I asked.

“Vaguely. Non-biological things held by biological things.”

“Well…I suppose.” I didn’t really like that definition, as it included an awful lot, but I remember getting a migraine the first few times we tried to go over this. “If I point you out there, can you shoot the other guns?”

“I do not know. What is a shot? How do I know if I’ve done it or not done it?”

“Come on, Gun. You’ve shot things a million times.”

“A million? That is awfully precise. How do you know I haven’t shot a million and one? Or 999,999 times?”

“Thad Elon’s Runny Nose,” I exclaimed. “I need you to focus, Gun. I can’t go through this right now. Just shoot their weapons, okay?”

“I will make the motions of doing what I think it is you’re saying to do,” he replied.

I contemplated holstering Gun and trying something else, but I figured I would give him a chance.

I cracked open the front door and stuck out Gun, blindly.

Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang!

Gun rapid fired what must have been two hundred shots. I felt myself sink to my knees and it was all I could do to pull my hand back inside. I was lying on my back, completely drained of energy. I really wanted a nice snack to eat. Something salty.

“Cliston,” I mumbled. “See what happened.”

“You’re blocking the door, sir.”

With significant effort, I managed to roll out of the way.

Cliston peeked out the door and closed it again.

“It seems Gun did shoot the weapons they were carrying.”

“Why did he shoot so much? They didn’t have that many guns.”

“He also seems to have shot off their hats. Their shoes. Their radios.”

“Oh.”

“They appear to be leaving, sir.”

“Nice. Do we have anything to eat?”

“What are you in the mood for, sir? I could whip up a nice six-course pungent savory.”

“That sounds good. No, wait. Something easy. Liquid. I don’t think I have the energy to chew.”

“Sir, your tele is ringing.”

“Yeah, it is. Can you answer it for me? My arms are kind of jelly.”

“Of course.”

Cliston manhandled me to the side and removed my tele.

“Hank residence. Cliston the butler speaking. Oh, hello. It is good to hear your voice. Yes. Yes. Hank is a bit indisposed at the moment. I believe so. Ah, that is most interesting. What is your recommendation? I see. I do thank you for calling. I’m sure Hank would as well. Goodbye.”

“Who was that? Wrong number?” I asked.

“No, that was Garm. She said the Navy is going to bombard this building.”

“Bombard? What’s that mean?” I asked, getting a boost of adrenaline.

“A cruiser in orbit is going to turn its weapons on this house and destroy it. Garm suggested we leave immediately.”





CHAPTER 42




“Delovoa, get out here now!” I yelled outside his door.

“What’s going on?” he asked, rubbing his three sleepy eyes.

“They’re going to blow up the building! Get your stuff and go.”

“Who? When?”

“The Navy. In a cruiser. Soon.”

Delovoa threw open the door. Inside, I could see his thousands upon thousands of trinkets and inventions and parts and supplies. It was probably all worth a small fortune.

“Help me gather stuff,” he said desperately.

“Screw you, I’m getting my own things.”

“Who cares about your dresses and make-up and food? My gear is irreplaceable.”

“Well, if you consider your life irreplaceable you better hurry up. We’re going to meet between Wallow’s legs. We figure that will be the safest area from the blast.”

“They can’t be using normal missiles. It wouldn’t penetrate the shield. Not to mention the latticework would be in the way.”

“Garm said a cruiser was doing it. I don’t know more than that.”

“Garm? You said you don’t trust Garm,” Delovoa challenged.

“I don’t. But I trust the Navy to obliterate my building just the same.”

“Why?”

“I’m harboring at least two Dredel Led.”

“At least? What’s that mean?”

“They’re making them smaller and smaller. For all I know I got fifty Dredel Led stuck in my carpet fibers. Stop arguing and come on!”

Cliston was carrying his travel case, the helmet that let me connect to Thaxmultaerea, the Emerald Crusader, some of the formula he used to cook my special food, and my bag of daxapronal that Najosa had given me.

I was carrying Gun, a suitcase full of credits, five changes of underwear, a dress that wasn’t shot to pieces, and five of my best bottles of alcohol.

Delovoa was dragging a wheelbarrow literally spilling technical parts and gadgets all along the sidewalk as we hurried toward the safety of Wallow’s crotch.

We all hunkered down and waited.

“This doesn’t make sense,” Delovoa said. “Even if they had a high-pressure tachyon jumbler—which they don’t—firing it at one building on a space station is nearly impossible.”

“I’m just saying what she told Cliston.”

“You didn’t even talk to her yourself?”

“No. I had just fired Gun and was indisposed.”

“Cliston is at war with us, are you going to take his word for it?” Delovoa turned to Cliston, who was standing right next to him. “Sorry, I’m a bit frazzled. I just dragged half my belongings out onto the street.”

“Quite understandable,” Cliston replied.

We waited for another forty-five minutes while Delovoa and I passed one of my bottles back and forth until we were comfortably tipsy.

“Were you saving this?” Delovoa asked, looking at the label.

“Can you believe I got that from Arch Minister Maris-To?” I asked.

“Really? I didn’t think you two were that close.”

“I stole it from his wine cellar when I was invited to a party. I had three other bottles but I drank them.”

“Sir. One does not pilfer from his host,” Cliston chastised.

“Pilfer,” Delovoa taunted. “You big pilferer.”

“I don’t think anything is going to happen,” I said, staring at my non-destroyed building.

“I’m not going back in there until tomorrow. I won’t be able to sleep thinking about a cruiser flying above me getting its accuracy perfect,” Delovoa said.

“Why do you think Garm wanted us to leave the building?” I asked.

Delovoa shrugged.

“Maybe she knew you’d drink up your booze and she was going to sell you some. Who knows with her?”

I was about to debate the logic of that when it suddenly got a bit darker.

“Hey—” I began.

Then there followed an enormous roar. Like an entire five-story steel building was being ripped apart at the molecular level.

“Holy crap!” Delovoa screamed.

It was over in a second, but we sat there, deafened, for some minutes more.

When we were certain it was done, we peeked out past Wallow’s feet.

There was a fine steel dust coating everything for blocks. My building was completely gone! There was no other damage. No holes in the adjoining buildings. No giant crater where my home had been.

It was as if an enormous eraser had come down, scratched out my building, and distributed the particles across the adjoining streets.

“My house,” I said, stunned.

“Well, damn,” Delovoa said. “Someone up there does have a high-pressure tachyon jumbler.”





CHAPTER 43




I was now living in the sky.

Specifically, City Hall. It was the tallest building on the space station, being something like a hundred stories. It was kind of hard to be certain because there were so many elevator banks and I suspected there were hidden floors here or there.

In any case, I figured if the Navy was out to find me, hiding in City Hall would be a good cover. Even if they knew I was here, it would take them weeks to actually locate me, the building was so massive.

I was also happy that I got to move away from Wallow’s corpse.

“What floor are we on again?” I asked Cliston on my tele.

“46th South,” he replied.

We were living in four adjoining rooms that had likely been offices. Delovoa was ten floors above us. He was still upset about our building being destroyed and didn’t want to live on the same floor as me. Though he had no problem being close enough that he could get Cliston to cook for him now and then.

Cliston had done a fantastic job turning the stuffy offices into chic living quarters. He tripled my supply of underwear and managed to make me some extra clothes that weren’t dresses.

We had only been here for three days.

“Everything is gone,” I told Cliston.

I had finally taken the time to scout the empty space that was formerly my house, hoping to find some valuables that survived.

“We’ll manage, sir.”

“How much money do I have in the bank?”

“None, sir. You told me to withdraw it all. I assume most of it was destroyed with the building.”

“When did I tell you to take all my money out?” I demanded.

“About two months ago. You had mentioned something about ‘dirty Ank bastards,’” he explained.

“That sounds like something I’d say,” I agreed.

The Ank were the bankers of the galaxy. They had tried to screw me over a number of times and I vaguely recall meeting one, getting in an argument, and resolving to work on a cash basis.

Which is fine, as long as you don’t get robbed or get your house turned into dust.

I was still unclear on who gave the order and why.

The little Dredel Led, the Emerald Crusader, was still hanging out with us. I think he was a bit infatuated with Cliston. Not in a sexual way—if robots could even get sexual—but Cliston was so experienced and so good at so many things. In contrast, the Emerald Crusader was so bad at everything. Though he was only a week old.

“I’m thinking of getting my primary directive changed and becoming a butler,” the Emerald Crusader said proudly.

“Ah,” I replied. I didn’t want to dash the poor guy’s dreams, but I couldn’t think he would make a good butler unless he could find a species that was six inches tall.

He tried to help around the house but it took all his efforts to carry a set of silverware, and another thirty minutes to arrange them around the table.

We explained the situation about Kai’Un and Thaxmultaerea and the war. That was enough for the Emerald Crusader to put his idea of Colmarian conquest on hold.

That said, it took Cliston to really convince the Emerald Crusader. If I told him which way was up and down, he was immediately skeptical, but if Cliston said that the void of space was made out of black chicken soup, he would take it as gospel.

“So how much money do we have?” I asked Cliston.

“Enough to get by for a while, but we could really use some more.”

“I’m not sure if I should lay low because of the Navy.”

“Aren’t you the Master Overseer of Navy and Belvaille Relations, sir?”

“Yeah. But that didn’t stop them from blowing up my house.”

“Knowing the PCC, perhaps you could just ask them.”

“Ask them what?”

“If they are trying to arrest you for your relationship with the Dredel Led.”

“Why would they tell me?”

“Because you are the Master Overseer of Navy and Belvaille Relations.”

“You know, Cliston, that’s just PCC enough to work.”





CHAPTER 44




I called up to try and make an appointment with Mr. Boshe, but to my surprise no one had ever heard of him. After about an hour of transfers and arguments, I thought I was going crazy. Had I just imagined Mr. Boshe on his battlecruiser?

But no, he was still around.

It seemed his promotion finally came through and he was now the Joint High Wardian and Marshall of the South-by-Southwest Region of the Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation Navy.

That, plus five credits, will get you a gob of spit and some change.

Actually, that wasn’t fair. I was just crabby because I got the runaround for so long. I had only met a Wardian once before, in the old Colmarian Confederation, and they were a big deal. I had to assume they were still a big deal in the PCC.

Though why this area was considered the South-by-Southwest Region was beyond me. Belvaille was almost the exact center of the empire.

The new Wardian wanted to talk to me. But before I was going to fly out to meet him, I wanted some assurances they weren’t going to arrest or try and kill me.

He sent, by space courier, a form. It was Disposition Pergola 1-38-3-3-3. I had them deliver it to The Club and I picked it up the next day.

“It says they won’t arrest you,” Cliston stated, examining the form.

“That’s it?”

“It’s ten pages long, but it quite clearly states they won’t arrest, harm, or kill you. Provided you don’t misbehave.”

“Misbehave? Does it literally use that word?”

“No, sir. It lists just about every possible thing you could do. Knock over trash receptacles; steal office supplies; paint graffiti on the walls; pickpocket Navy personnel; and…quite a bit more,” Cliston said.

“Are there any things I could accidentally do?”

Cliston looked me over for a moment.

“Just keep your hands and feet to yourself and don’t speak to anyone other than the Wardian. You should be fine.”

I had Zzzho drop me off at the Armage.

“Wish me luck,” I said.

“They just disintegrated your entire building?” he asked.

“Yup.”

“I think you’re going to need more than luck.”

There was a holdup when I docked. Security was unbelievably tight on the ship—I guess they were on official war footing.

“I’m a ‘personage,’” I explained, remembering my experiences the previous times I boarded.

“Oh. That’s a whole other form,” the clerk said.

Once they filled it out, I was frisked, and they confiscated Gun. I tried to argue, but debating with PCC officials just wasn’t going to happen, so I gave up.

They handed me two receipts for Gun so I had a slight hope they would give me two Guns when I left.

The new office of the Wardian was impressive. It was everything his old office wasn’t: spacious, uncluttered, imposing.

Mr. Boshe, er, Wardian Boshe, was wearing a crisp blue uniform. Though he only had one medal on his chest. Like the previous Wardian I had met, he also carried an impractical, outdated weapon on his side. The other Wardian had possessed a sword, but Boshe had a metal flail of some kind.

A flail.

He was standing on a battlecruiser, in space, and he had a stick with a spiky metal cap. It was beyond absurd.

“Hey, you got shoes!” I said.

Wardian Boshe was indeed wearing shiny black boots.

“Leave us,” he said to the two officers who had been observing me with a critical eye.

After the men left, he turned his attention on me.

“Are the Dredel Led destroyed?” he asked.

“You blew up my house. You could have asked me if you wanted them.”

“We did ask you.”

“Well, you didn’t ask politely. You opened fire as soon as I stuck my head out.”

“That was a communication error.”

“I’d say it was more than that. If I wasn’t bulletproof, I’d be dead.”

“But you are bulletproof and you aren’t dead, so there is no point in discussing hypotheticals.”

Hmm, that was kind of true. I kept forgetting that Wardian Boshe was cleverer than the average PCC official.

“Seriously, where did you get those boots? I thought you liked to feel the vibration of the ship and the leaking pipes.”

“Never mind my clothes, you’re wearing a dress. But have the Dredel Led been eliminated?”

“Sure,” I said. There was absolutely zero reason for me to tell him the truth. He’d just blow up City Hall, then whatever other building I came to rest at, until Cliston and the Emerald Crusader were dead.

“Would you be willing to take a lie detector test?” he asked.

“Sure,” I said, smiling. Not only was my body impossible to scan, but they couldn’t even check my pulse. I had no fear of whatever detectors they had.

“Good. I’m sorry, but we are at war. I have orders to eliminate all Dredel Led we encounter.”

“So you’re a Wardian now. Of the Southwest Region.”

“I am the Joint High Wardian and Marshall of the South-by-Southwest Region,” he corrected. “I told you that once we were at war, my promotion would be expedited.”

“You also said you would work on getting us made citizens. How’s that coming?”

“I’ve only had my commission for a handful of days. I don’t even have my full uniform, which is held up in Parliament.”

“They voting on how many stripes, and stars, and doodads to put on your chest?” I joked.

“Yes,” he replied seriously. “But things are getting much better because of the war.”

“That’s not a phrase you hear often.”

“Things are improving. They even dissolved the third House of Parliament to expedite the creation of new policies.”

“Really?” I said, honestly impressed. “What was the third House called? I could never figure it out.”

“I don’t believe they got around to naming it,” Wardian Boshe replied. “Have you thought any more about enlisting? I could almost certainly make you a junior officer.”

“I was an Oberhoffman in the Colmarian Confederation Navy at one point.”

“That wasn’t logged on your records.”

“It was centuries ago. And I had the title for like a week. But no, I haven’t thought much about it. I’ve been avoiding getting killed by the Navy.”

“If you were a member of our corps, things like that wouldn’t happen.”

“I’m sure PCC kill each other all the time just because someone filled out the wrong paperwork.”

“No,” Wardian Boshe almost shouted. “Those days are over. We’re going to clean up this government and we need competent people.”

“So I’m competent?”

“You were Governor of the city, you ran the police force, you were a Factotum—whatever that is—and you had a hand in…quite a few very important incidents over the years. Just the fact you’re still alive proves you’re competent.”

“I guess,” I said absently.

“If you didn’t want to enlist, why are you here?”

“Oh, I wanted to see if you guys were really trying to kill me. Or arrest me.”

“The Dredel Led were the target and they have been eliminated. But I need to know everything about them. Their capabilities, their weaknesses, how they died.”

I shuddered thinking of explaining Cliston’s “capabilities.” I would be here for months.

“How they died was easy: you guys disintegrated the building they were in.”

“And they didn’t leave when you did?”

“No. They’re, uh, stupid.”

“You see? I told you the Dredel Led were no match for us,” Wardian Boshe stated triumphantly. “How did you know to leave before the strike occurred?”

As mad as I was at Garm over other things, I wasn’t about to rat her out.

“I was just going to get something to eat. The Dredel Led don’t eat, so they stayed.”

“You were friendly with them both? I was under the impression that one was attacking you.”

“Yeah, but he was tiny,” I said, motioning with my hands. “I’m still not entirely convinced he was Dredel Led. He looked like a toy.”

“Do you think he could have been reconnoitering?”

“I don’t know what that word means. Is it like loitering?” I asked.

“No. Do you think he was gathering information for a further Dredel Led attack?”

“I don’t think so.”

“Did you sustain any injuries?”

“I just said he was like this tall. If I swallowed him, I don’t think it would have hurt me.”

I was admiring the Wardian’s new office while we talked. He had a lot of fancy items in it and the thug in me was appraising how much they might be worth on the black market.

There was an ornate glowing sign with twisty, three-dimensional letters.

“That looks like Rettosian writing,” I said.

“It is. It was given to me by one of their ambassadors.”

I got worried.

“Was he really, really old and wheezy and puttering around in a wheelchair? And a scientist?”

“No. He was young and arrogant. Why would you inquire about a Rettosian scientist?”

“Oh. Never mind. I just had some issues with him.”

“On Belvaille?” he asked, confused.

“No, this was on Floloria,” I said.

“When were you on Floloria?”

“I don’t know. Years ago. He was the guy who mutated the whole System.”

“I see. Though the reintroduction of mutants into Colmarian society may turn out to be a tremendous benefit.”

“I can fly,” I said.

“What?”

“I was mutated so that I can fly—but only when in space.”

He obviously didn’t believe me.

“Watch,” I said.

I concentrated hard and lifted off the ground for a second. Wardian Boshe seemed entirely unimpressed.

“Yes, I heard most mutations are equally pointless. But it still gives us an added element of surprise. I was asking about Floloria because it is a derelict city.”

“So I’ve heard.”

“The Navy may conduct bombing exercises on it.”

“Well, fire away. Just make sure it’s really empty first. So far you guys have a history of blowing up occupied buildings.”





CHAPTER 45




I was walking across the Armage on my way back to the dock. I had been aboard this damn battlecruiser so many times now that I was starting to know my way around.

I noticed the ship seemed to be operating more smoothly. Less backwards and inefficient. Less PCC.

“Psst,” someone said.

I looked around but saw no one.

“Psst,” I heard again.

“Huh?”

“Idiot, over here,” Garm said.

She was wedged between two bulkheads and standing in the only shadows on the entire ship.

“Are you a ventriloquist? I couldn’t tell where it was coming from. I thought I had sprung a leak.”

“It’s these metal walls. Sounds echo. Walk with me. But stay three steps behind,” she said.

“I can’t fit in there.”

She sighed and began walking down a hallway, waving her hand backwards so I wouldn’t follow too closely.

“What are you doing here?” she asked.

“I could ask you the same thing.”

“I work for the Navy. Wardian Boshe is the head of the Navy in this area.”

“Wardian,” I snickered. “He was Mister Boshe a few days ago.”

“He could have been a striped cupcake a few days ago, he’s a Wardian now. So why are you here?” she asked.

“I wanted to see if the Navy was trying to kill me.”

“No, just your Dredel Led. Is Cliston okay?”

“I don’t know if I should tell you.”

Garm stopped, but didn’t look at me.

“Why?”

“You’ve been lying to me this whole time. You even said I shouldn’t trust you. Well, I don’t.”

“I’m the one who warned you to get out of your house. Last time I checked you were alive because of me.”

“You didn’t warn me that the Navy was going to come shooting up my building in the first place.”

“I didn’t know.”

“How did you not know? You make a big point to say you’re in charge of the Navy on Belvaille.”

“I’m an Adjunct Overwatch on a non-citizen space station. I’m just supposed to keep the port open and the telescopes functioning.”

“What about hacking the Dredel Led?”

“That again? I told you I don’t know anything about it,” she said, and either she had gotten better at lying to me, or she was really telling the truth.

“Have you gotten better at lying?” I asked.

“What are you on about? Did you find who was hacking?”

“Yes. It was the Navy. In a Navy building. With Navy guards. On Belvaille. Miss Adjunct Overwatch.”

“Where?”

“About thirteen blocks south of City Hall. That weird domed building.”

“You think I know the architecture of every house on Belvaille? What was inside?”

“Hacking stuff. I don’t know. But we traced the transmissions to that building and it was a Navy facility.”

Garm seemed to think about that.

“Did you attack the guards?”

“Didn’t have to, they left it unprotected for hours.”

“Are you sure it was Navy? It’s not hard to buy a uniform.”

“Yes, I’m sure it was Navy. There’s not many people left on Belvaille and I know them all. The Navy has every reason to hack the Dredel Led—especially now that we’re at war.”

“But you were saying this was happening before the war. And, honestly, the war has taken everyone by surprise.”

“You start hacking people and they get upset.”

“I guess I can try and look into it,” she said reluctantly.

“Golly, don’t hurt yourself. I mean it’s only what caused the war.”

“It didn’t cause the war. And the war hasn’t even started,” she said.

“I got ambushed by a Dredel Led while I was sitting in The Club!”

“I know, but you don’t really count. The Dredel Led could be trying to kill you for all sorts of reasons.”

“And this is why I don’t trust you.”

“Good. Maybe next time I won’t warn you to leave your house.”

“How many times are they going to blow it up?”

“I doubt they would destroy City Hall. It’s too big and important.”

“How do you know where I live?”

“Hank, you aren’t exactly hard to notice. Is the building comfortable?”

“It’s okay,” I said, annoyed. “Hey, so promise me the Navy isn’t doing anything else dastardly. You know, something that might kill me.”

“It’s the PCC Navy. They’re doing a billion things you would think are dastardly. That’s why I don’t tell you. As for it killing you, you’re working on the Skim. It’s not as if you’re Hank the Helpful.”

“I didn’t invent the Source-Destination Doctrine,” I said.

“I didn’t either. You’re doing what you can to get by, and so am I. So far, you’ve gotten your house blown up, ended up in the hospital, and I’ve gotten about a thousand paper cuts. I think I’m doing alright.”

“If you consider working for the enemy ‘alright,’” I muttered.

“What is it with you and the PCC?”

“Oh, I don’t know, maybe the fact that if I hadn’t gotten your call, Cliston would be dead and I would be dead. That’s two really awesome people, gone from the galaxy, just because a miniature robot fired some plastic pellets at me. I can’t say I approve of the PCC’s judgment.”

“But a city full of gang bosses and criminals is okay?”

“They’re just greedy. The PCC are beyond that. I can’t even figure out what they want.”

“To rebuild the Colmarian Confederation,” she said without hesitation.

My head almost popped off my shoulders.

“See? As if the Colmarian Confederation was some shining star of benevolence and organization. You were in it. You know how moronic the Confederation was.”

“Yeah, I do. Moronic enough to let me run an illegal space station while working for them. You better hope the PCC doesn’t get any more competent or they’ll find out about the Skim and crush it.”

“That’s pretty harsh.”

“You want nice and safe you better find another galaxy to live in.”

“All I’m asking is you keep me informed,” I told Garm.

“Okay, then you tell me why the Dredel Led declared war on us. I’m betting you know.”

“Kai’Un.”

“What’s that?” she asked.

“It’s a million-brained Dredel Led that voted for war,” I said, leaving out my involvement.

“Is it their leader?”

“No. Dredel Led don’t have a leader. They vote by consensus and he has a million votes.”

“A million votes aren’t that many,” she said.

“The Dredel Led only have like five million…people.”

“Really? Did a bunch of them die?”

“That’s what I asked. Cliston said there never were that many of them.”

“How did the Colmarian Confederation manage to have a war with them for thousands of years?” Garm pondered.

“Yeah, I said that too. Because the Colmarian Confederation sucked. And the PCC is trying to recreate it.”

“This will be our second attempt at making it. Maybe we’ll do better this time,” she said.

“Yeah, and maybe I’ll paint my face yellow and tell everyone I’m a star.”





CHAPTER 46




“You want to skim from our Skim?” Roll Bungalow asked.

“Not exactly,” I said. “We need to take about 15% of the ship’s cargo.”

I was in Roll’s office. He was wearing his tight, gold shorts, no shirt. With him was his mutant friend, and my mutant enemy, big-toothed Xandale.

I was trying to smooth things over for the Society of the Free and Easy to do the job Thad’s Friend assigned us: to heist transport BA-553J9. But I was meeting some resistance.

“If you take that much cargo we won’t be able to skim at all. In fact, the ship will probably be stopped, inspected, and the crew arrested,” Roll said.

“I know,” I answered weakly.

“We already have buyers lined up,” Xandale said. “We’ve already bribed the crew. Everything is ready to go. That’s our skim!”

“Yeah, I’m sorry about this, but you can’t skim BA-553J9.”

“Says who?” Xandale asked.

“Says me. But also says a lot more guns and fists than you want to deal with. Trust me on that.”

“Trust you? Is that a joke? When you come in here and tell me I’m going to lose a fortune,” Roll said.

I knew this wasn’t going to go over well. What was even more ironic about it was the transport was going to use the Portal that had been monitored by Protocol Officer Sylvan-Fre. So I had gotten him transferred, which opened the Portal back up for business, and then I was saying the first Skim they had planned was cancelled.

“You can get your money back from the crew,” I said.

“And how are we supposed to do that? Ask them politely?” Xandale replied.

“No, I would ask them impolitely. But this needs to happen.”

“We set up this Skim first. We did all the legwork and we did it according to the rules. Your rules, I want to point out. Now you drop in and say you’re skimming it and we have to back off.”

“I’m not skimming it. I’m robbing it. Skim is 2%.”

“I know what a Skim is. I’m asking why your job takes precedence!” Roll said angrily.

“It’s just this one time,” I said.

“We could call the cops on you,” Xandale said.

“The cops? MTB isn’t going to care about this stuff. He doesn’t get involved in settling criminal disagreements.”

“He’ll care that you’re breaking your own agreements on the Skim,” Xandale said.

“You don’t know MTB very well. I swear, he doesn’t care how a bunch of crooks do their crooked crookery.”

“I don’t like being jerked around,” Roll sulked.

“We could call the Navy,” Xandale suggested.

“Nah. Even if you called the Navy, I’m the Master Overseer of Navy and Belvaille Relations. I talk with Mr. Wardian Boshe all the time—he even asked me to join the Navy. You guys are just some non-citizens from a non-citizen space station.”

“If you joined the Navy, they would make you do push-ups,” Roll said.

“I’d have Delovoa give me a doctor’s note excusing me.”

Xandale was stewing but Roll was more pragmatic.

“I want to be reimbursed. If word gets out that you’re cutting in on Skims, that won’t make your life any easier around here.”

“How much?” I asked.

“Four hundred large,” Roll said.

“Be serious. You weren’t even going to clear that much money off your Skim. I can maybe swing five figures.”

“That’s spit,” Xandale blurted.

“Everyone’s on a budget. I’d have to give you half of what I was going to earn just to cover that.”

“You’re not earning very much,” Roll said. “Tell me, is this because you lost your house recently?”

“I didn’t lose it. It’s not like I misplaced it. I moved to a better home.”

“And you blew up your old one?” Xandale asked suspiciously.

“It wasn’t blown up. It’s just not there. I didn’t like the idea of anyone living in it after me,” I explained. I obviously wasn’t going to tell them Boshe did it when I was trying to suggest that I was on good terms with the Navy.

“The crew will report this to the PCC so they don’t get in trouble. Then it will blow back on my gang. They’ll think we did it,” Roll said.

“No. I’m pretty sure it will look like a robbery when we’re done,” I replied.

“What are you going to do about the Navy investigating?” Roll asked.

“I don’t know, honestly. I’m not very worried about the PCC Navy learning anything, but I’m worried if they do increase security overall.”

“You don’t sound like you have this very thought out,” Xandale said.

“I didn’t have a lot of time. The transport is leaving in two days and I didn’t know about it until recently.”

“If you can help us get our bribe money back from the transport crew, I’ll accept fifty grand as a payoff,” Roll said finally.

“How can I ‘help’ you get your money back? Hold your hands while you beat them up?”

“He means for you to get our money back,” Xandale clarified.

“I don’t have a relationship. You’ve already worked with them,” I said.

“If we back out now, they’ll know we’re responsible for your robbery.”

“They’ll know either way. If I take back the bribe money or you take back the bribe money, they’ll know the bribe is off.”

“Okay, let me rephrase it: I’m making you do it because you caused this.”

I sighed.

“Alright, then.”

Xandale was clearly not happy and he leaned in to whisper to Roll.

“No, it’s fine. We’ll make it back,” Roll said to Xandale. “But this won’t happen again, will it?” Roll asked me.

“No, it won’t happen again,” I said.



Getting the money back from the crew wasn’t all that hard.

I have centuries of experience breaking kneecaps and strongly suggesting that I was about to break someone’s kneecaps.

The ship crew needed their kneecaps to pilot the ship, so it was an easy transaction.





CHAPTER 47




I was with the Society of the Free and Easy. And Frank.

We were in my home at City Hall, standing around some blueprints I had procured, planning the mission from the Rettosian scientist, aka Thad’s Friend.

“Frank will be our guard outside the ship. If anyone comes snooping around the docking bay, he can take care of them,” I said, pointing to the blueprint.

“I think Shella would be better at that. Frank’s combat experience will be wasted out there,” Najosa said.

“Frank can talk his way out of most scrapes without resorting to fighting. We want to get in and get out without causing any problems,” I said.

“Why?” Nordan asked.

“Because, that’s what you do. That’s how these jobs are run,” I answered, annoyed. “This isn’t an invasion. We are stealing goods. The less trouble we cause, the less trouble we’ll have.”

Frank shrugged. He didn’t care, as long as he was getting paid.

I motioned back to the blueprint.

“I rented this warehouse. It’s as close to the ship as I could get. Alase, you said you could operate a heavy lifter, right?”

“I’ve run them before, but I’m not great at it,” she explained.

“You’re going to be making three trips, wheeling around 120,000 pounds of electronics each time. You better be great at it. The streets in the dock are wide, but if you go smashing into buildings, this operation is going to fall apart.”

“She’ll be fine,” Najosa said.

“Nordan and Meltar will go into the ship’s cockpit to secure our access to the cargo bay and make sure no one interferes with us. Alase drives the heavy lifter and Shella will be directing traffic. Tell everyone you see that you’re moving hazardous chemicals. That should clear them out.”

“What are you and Najosa doing?” Frank asked.

“We go into the cargo bay and make way for the heavy lifter. This is a massive freighter. There might be crew members in there or security guards. I’m actually expecting some resistance, so most of our combat expertise needs to be there.”

“Why are you expecting resistance?” Najosa asked.

“I just am,” I said. I didn’t feel the need to explain that I had told Roll Bungalow that we were coming. Hopefully, he was okay with the deal I had given him.

I showed Alase where the heavy lifter was stored and gave her the keys.

Cliston brought us coffee and finger food.

“You know, Hank, I had my doubts about you for a while,” Nordan said. “I thought you were a bit of a buffoon. But you’re really good at this.”

“I’ve been pulling these capers since before your great-grandparents were born,” I said.

“I don’t have great-grandparents. My grandparents were grown in a vat,” he replied.

“Then before the vat was molded. Does everyone understand what they’re supposed to do?” I asked.

“What kind of weapons should I bring?” Najosa asked.

“Pistols, submachine guns. Nothing with supersonic ammunition or high penetration. If you damage the containers or the equipment that operates the containers, we’re going to have a tough time fulfilling this contract.”

“What if they’re wearing bulletproof armor?” she asked.

“Then they get to see how much of a combat model Ontakian you are,” I replied.



Everyone was in place.

Najosa and I were standing with Frank in the docking bay next to the rear of the freighter.

Just the back door on this thing was bigger than my house. Well, my old house that got vaporized.

Meltar and Nordan were headed to the control area and would be able to let us in, as well as stabilize the ship for unloading. It was possible that there were some crew members hanging out up there, but they likely wouldn’t be armed, and by the time they figured out it was a robbery, they’d have guns in their faces.

“The ship controls are very archaic. This is an old transport. What planet is it from again?” Meltar asked on the tele.

“Doesn’t matter. Keep the chatter to a minimum, teles aren’t secure,” I replied.

We were all sharing a conference call so we could use our teles like radios. It was a bit clunky to set up and use, but it beat trying to shout across multiple city blocks.

The cargo door began lowering with all kinds of flashing lights and sirens, which made me cringe. It wasn’t exactly the kind of welcome you wanted during a burglary.

“Cut the sirens if you can,” Najosa said, reading my thoughts.

The door paused and then started raising back up.

“No, forget it, just keep going,” she said.

It took ten minutes for the door to open completely. Anyone inside, even if they had been asleep, were now ready for us.

“Don’t die,” Frank said to me, by way of encouragement.

“Thanks. Don’t kill anyone,” I replied.

Najosa was wearing light body armor. It wouldn’t stop any serious weapons, but with a little luck, we wouldn’t be facing anyone.

It took seven minutes just to walk up the ramp that led into the cargo bay. It really was a gigantic ship. It was probably the size of Wardian Boshe’s battlecruiser. But instead of guns and compartments and crew barracks, it was nearly all one big cargo hold.

The ceiling was about 300 feet above us and the far walls in any other direction couldn’t be seen. There was endless row after row of containers, and the machinery to help move, secure, and maintain them.

I tended to look down on transport crews for the most part. It was a dull job with low pay. But seeing the insane amount of storage here gave me a real appreciation for what went on. This ship was capable of moving an entire planet’s trade goods. In the case of this ship, it was carrying food, water, clothing, and our target: electronic components.

If it crashed on an uninhabited planet, it would leave just about everything needed for a small colony to survive and thrive for a good quarter century.

“Quit gawking and come on,” Najosa said at my open-mouthed staring.

I felt like an insect walking amongst all the containers.

“If someone is here, where do you think they’d be stationed?” Najosa asked.

“I haven’t got a clue,” I replied.

We walked side by side, her with a snub submachine gun ready. Me holding Gun.

“See if you can get some more light back here,” Najosa said into her tele.

“Affirmative,” came the reply.

We kept going, straining our eyes at the shadows and looking for ambushes.

Then all the overhead lights powered down.

“Now all the lighting is off,” Najosa said to her tele.

“Hank. You’ve brought company,” I heard Xandale say from somewhere to the front and right of us.

The sirens turned on again. What little light there was, started to completely disappear—the bay door was being closed.

“If we want to get out of here, now is our only chance,” I whispered to Najosa.

“We came for the job and we’ll finish it. Who called your name?” she asked.

“Xandale. He’s a mutant. He can turn…I guess he can make himself into a ghost.”

“What?”

“He can become like smoke. But he can’t hurt me when he’s like that.”

“What about me?” she asked.

It was too dark for her to see me shrug in ignorance.

“Xandale. I have a deal with your boss. This is our transport.”

“No, Hank. You have a deal with Belvaille. With everyone here. It’s called the Skim, remember?”

Najosa fired off a dozen shots in the direction of Xandale’s voice. The bullets ricocheted off several containers.

“You know what a ghost is, right?” I asked her.

“Xandale, I told you why we had to do this,” I yelled.

“No, you didn’t. You just said it had to be done. You said to hell with the Skim.”

“This isn’t about the Skim,” I replied.

“It is!” He said. The location of his voice was moving. “Everything is the Skim. It’s our one chance to make the city grow again. Now you feel like changing the rules, changing the agreements, and we’re all supposed to be okay with it.”

Xandale was right. I beat it into everyone’s heads how the Skim would work. How it had to work. Now I was putting everything at risk, the whole space station’s livelihood, for what? A crusty old Rettosian I didn’t even like and some credits.

Oh, and Najosa. I was doing this because Najosa wanted it.

“Deals change, Xandale, you know that,” I said.

“This wasn’t a deal. Roll Bungalow is just one small part of Belvaille. You have to square this with everyone who is in on the Skim. It affects us all.”

“I can’t do that. There wasn’t enough time,” I said.

“You knew no one would agree. I can’t understand why you’re doing it. If you rob this freighter like you described, it will then be in violation of the Source-Destination Doctrine. Do you think no one will notice that? A freighter comes in, passes all inspections, docks with Belvaille, then loses a significant portion of its cargo. The PCC is bad, but they aren’t that bad.”

Najosa snorted in disagreement.

I touched her hand to indicate which direction we should go.

“So, Xandale, is this your game plan: hope we’re scared of the dark?”

“No. I contacted the Navy and reported there were thieves on board this ship. Knowing the PCC, it will take them an hour to even find the ship, but it should stop you.”

“They’ll catch you too!”

“I can walk through walls,” he said.

“Oh. Well, if you’re worried about the Skim, bringing cops here isn’t going to help.”

“No, but it’s a lot better than a ship breaking the Doctrine when it’s on our soil,” he said.

“Does Roll Bungalow know you’re doing this?” I asked, trying to change tactics.

“No. This is my job. I consider it my last official act as a Factotum. You broke an agreement. An agreement that you yourself set up. If you were me, you would be sitting here doing the exact same thing I am.”

That hurt. Because it was true.

Xandale had been a Factotum along with me. We were official negotiators between nobles and…everyone else. Xandale was maybe better at it than I was. No, he definitely was better. He wasn’t a mutant back then and he still got way more business and way more money than I did.

I respected Xandale. I didn’t like him at all, but I respected him. He had tried to kill me multiple times. But he always gave me the opportunity to back out.

“Is there any way we can come to a compromise?” I asked.

“Yes. Leave,” he replied.

He was doing it again. He’d told me the cops were coming. He was giving me an out.

But I wasn’t the kind of guy who took the easy—or smart—way.

“I can’t do that, Xandale.”

“Then this is happening,” he said.

And nothing happened.

I was standing with my knees bent, my eyes wide, and ready for anything.

“Uh, what’s happening?” I asked, after a moment.

“Wait for it.”

There was a terrific scraping of metal from all around me and I thought the freighter must somehow be caving in. But no, it was the machinery.

The containers were all rotating on their enormous spindles.

The whole inside of the freighter was like a big conveyer belt of containers. Millions of pounds of trade goods were rocking and turning and twisting around past us.

“We need to get to a wall,” I said. “One of these containers hits us and we’re going to be a wet smear on the ground.”

“I can’t see anything,” Najosa said.

We flipped the lights on our teles, but compared to the cavernous interior of the ship, they provided almost no illumination.

I grabbed Najosa by the shoulder and pulled her back, right as a container swung up and came within eight inches of hitting her side.

“I’ve lost my bearings. Which way do we go?” she asked.

I couldn’t see much, but the containers were flipping around vertically, horizontally, and going every direction imaginable. It’s like the machinery had gone crazy. I don’t know how the containers weren’t smashing into each other, but I was at least happy for that small miracle.

Because of the movement of the machines, I was disoriented as well.

“Meltar. Nordan. Shut off the carousels in the cargo hold!” I yelled into my tele to be heard over the noise.

“We didn’t turn it on,” came the reply.

“I didn’t say you did. Just turn it off.”

We shined our lights all around and sidestepped the twisting and turning containers.

“We can’t turn it off. The controls aren’t working,” Meltar said.

“Xandale must be using the controls in here,” I said to Najosa.

“That doesn’t make sense. Why wouldn’t the cockpit be able to override the local controls?” Najosa asked.

“It makes perfect sense. The people down here know what’s happening more than the cockpit. Those are probably back-up controls. Unfortunately, I don’t know where the controls are in here, and even if I did, I wouldn’t know how to use them,” I said.

“Look out!”

I got grazed in the back by the corner of a container. As heavy as I am, I went flying a good eight feet and ended up sprawled on the ground.

I had to roll out of the way as another container came screaming past.

“Let’s go that way,” I said, as Najosa helped me to my feet.

“Why that way? Do you see something?”

“No, but it’s not here.”

We were swinging our tele lights around like they were protective talismans, but the fact of the matter is we got lucky an awful lot of times. The containers were moving tremendously fast. A few missteps would kill us.

I couldn’t make any sense of their movement patterns. The whole system was too big and complicated—not to mention it was almost completely dark.

“There, some lights,” I said.

I pointed and got my arm promptly smacked by a passing container.

“Ow!”

“What are the lights for?”

“How should I know? But it will give us something to move toward and keep our equilibrium. With everything moving, I’m getting vertigo.”

“I see it. It’s a blue light.”

“Yeah.”

We made our way to it, and almost got squashed between two containers. I had three buttons scraped off the front of my jacket.

I thought the light must be far away, until I almost ran into it. It was just a small light, with hardly any brightness. Like a child’s nightlight.

But we had reached one of the walls of the transport.

Shining our teles around, we saw that against the wall we had a good ten feet of safety from even the most recklessly tilting container.

“Now what?” Najosa asked.

“You need to look for the controls down here.”

“I won’t know how to use them any more than you do,” she said.

“No, but you can get Meltar and Nordan to guide you via tele. You also need to call Alase and get her down here with that heavy lifter.”

“The door isn’t even open. And the containers are going crazy! How can she possibly unload anything?”

“That heavy lifter moves maybe five miles an hour. The PCC Navy is going to be here soon. If we wait until we got everything situated, we won’t have time. If the cops come before we fix this, she can get arrested along with the rest of us.”

“What if we don’t fix it?”

“Then she can help identify our corpses,” I said.

“What are you going to do?”

“I have to find Xandale. If he keeps messing with the controls, we won’t ever get out of here in one piece.”

“Do you think you can survive if one of those containers hits you?”

“Hits me? Yeah. Lands on me? No. But I can take a lot more abuse than you can. This is why I’m here, right?”

“Okay. I’ll go along the walls and try and find the controls. Should I just turn the machines off?”

“That’s a start. But also see if you can turn off the artificial gravity.”

“Why?” she asked, shocked.

“Because I can fly.”





CHAPTER 48




I moved along the wall for as long as I could, but I felt Xandale would be hiding amongst the moving containers. If I was a ghost, that’s where I would be.

As I hopped, dodged, and ran my way through the jaws of the giant metal rectangles, I couldn’t help reflecting on how I got here.

This whole situation didn’t feel right. Not only the fact I was about to get flattened by a huge collection of stylish work clothes, but because I had practically known this was going to happen. I worked my ass off helping establish the careful rules of the Skim and then I went to my arch rival and told him I was just kidding about all that.

I think I subconsciously hoped there would be trouble here. That way I could spend my time dodging bullets instead of thinking about how messed up this mission was.

Even though I was thinking about it anyway.

And what exactly was I supposed to do to Xandale once I caught up to him—assuming I could find a ghost in the dark.

Gun said he could see Xandale before, but he couldn’t shoot him.

“Hey, Gun,” I said, taking out my pistol.

“Hello.”

“Can you see in the dark?”

“What’s a dark?” he asked.

I waved Gun around.

“Can you see anyone out there?”

“Yes.”

“Is it Najosa or someone else?”

“How would I know that?” he asked.

“She’s a she. I mean, she’s…” I really didn’t know how to explain the difference between men and women to a pistol that didn’t even know what darkness was.

“She’s smaller than me. A lot smaller,” I clarified.

“Everyone is smaller than you,” Gun replied.

I was used to either strange, metaphysical responses from Gun, or absolute literal truths. So his statement confused me. He had seen plenty of people larger than me.

“Wait. Did you just make a joke, Gun?”

“I don’t know. Was it funny?”

“Hey, don’t fool around. I can’t understand you half the time as it is.”

“I see someone,” Gun said.

“What are they doing?”

“What are any of us doing?” he replied.

That was a more typical Gun answer.

“I want to get to that person you see.”

“Can you walk?”

“Yes. But which direction do I go?”

“Not that way.”

“Not which way? I’m not moving.”

“Not that way either.”

“What are you talking about? I haven’t moved.”

I couldn’t argue with Gun around all these containers. I needed to find a safer place to talk.

“I said not that way,” Gun said, after I took a few steps.

“What?”

I felt my stomach jump into my throat and I almost threw up.

I was weightless.

“Was that you, Najosa?” I asked on the tele.

“Yes. I found some of the environmental systems but nothing that controls the cargo containers,” she replied.

“Keep looking.”

I concentrated, stretched out my left arm above my head, and I flew.

Directly into a container that had been above me.

I was pushed back downward, but instead of smashing me, my weightless body was merely nudged along.

I flew out from under the container and tried to resume my upward direction. But without gravity, it was hard to tell which way was which.

“Not that way,” Gun said.

I was about to question my pistol when I ran into one of the armatures that moved the containers.

“Ah!” I said, rubbing my shoulder.

Okay, flying in the dark maybe wasn’t the best idea I had.

I pulled myself up the machinery, trying not to get my hands caught in the rotating chains and cables.

“This way leads toward the person,” Gun said.

So Xandale—or Najosa—was above me? Or was I so disoriented I only thought I was going up?

In any case, I slowly flew that way. I didn’t accelerate very much, having learned the hard way that I didn’t have the ability to stop.

I bumped into several more containers, but I was brushed harmlessly aside and I continued onward.

After some tense moments, I finally saw a light ahead.

“Hello, Hank,” Xandale said. “Are you flying?”

Xandale was in a control booth. I couldn’t tell its orientation to the rest of the cargo hold, but it made sense if it was high above, so it could provide a better line of sight. Xandale could see me because I was still shining my tele light ahead of me.

I grabbed hold of the control booth and for a second I thought I was going to miss and fly on past. But I managed to catch the railing and haul myself inside.

It was spacious in the control booth, with room for maybe a half-dozen people. There were scores of low-light tele screens which showed the various angles of the cargo hold. He had probably been watching us the whole time.

Xandale was smoky. I couldn’t hurt him and he couldn’t hurt me.

“Yeah, I was flying. It’s my new mutation I picked up during the incident.”

“Wow. Why don’t you fly around all the time?” he asked casually.

“I don’t like to show off,” I said, not wanting to say it only worked in zero gravity.

“Since when were you shy?” he asked.

I figured, while Xandale was smoky, he couldn’t interfere with me. I went over to the controls and tried to sort them out.

There were approximately four billion buttons, ten billion switches, and maybe a quadrillion little knobs.

I started pressing and flipping and twisting.

“Is your goal to blow this ship up?” he asked. “Because I suspect randomly activating controls isn’t going to work out very well.”

“Then tell me how to turn off the containers,” I said, annoyed.

“Sure. This big switch here will shut down all the conveyors,” he said, pointing.

I hadn’t expected him to actually tell me. Was he telling me? Was it a trap? Like the switch was really how to eject the control booth into space.

“Honest,” Xandale said.

I reached out to the switch, watching Xandale’s smoky poker face. He didn’t have a traditional poker face: he was always smiling. But it worked out the same. It was hard to tell what he was thinking.

“Do you swear as a Factotum?” I asked.

“I’m not a Factotum any longer. Neither are you, clearly. Since you feel you can change agreements whenever it suits you.”

I clenched my jaw and flipped the switch.

All the machinery slowed down and stopped.

Huh. It was the right switch.

I heard a click and then all the machinery turned back on.

Xandale had gone from smoky, to not smoky, flipped the same switch I did, and went back to smoky. All in the blink of an eye.

“You’re not going to rob this ship,” Xandale stated.

“Hank, was that you?” Najosa asked on my tele.

“Go ahead and take the call. I can wait,” Xandale said.

“Yeah, it was me. I’m in a control tower…I think at the top of the ship. Xandale is here,” I said.

“Kill him,” Najosa said.

“She’s charming,” Xandale said to me.

“It’s not that simple,” I replied, then hung up.

I flipped the control switch off again and it was flipped back on almost instantly.

I then turned it off and kept my finger pressed on it. I knew I was stronger than Xandale by quite a bit.

The machines all turned back on.

“Got to love these redundant systems,” he said, on the other side of the booth.

I had to toggle the switch on and off again to power down the machines, but Xandale just turned them back on.

“I’d like to say this is fun, but it’s pretty boring, Hank. I’m not going to materialize so you can rip my head off, and you can’t steal anything while the containers are moving. It’s a stalemate—except for the fact the Navy is on its way.”

“Xandale, I’ll give you my entire cut of the heist,” I said.

“You are desperate. So what has you in this situation? Do you owe someone? Is your life on the line? Make me understand why you’re putting the whole space station at risk. Better talk fast, you’re running out of time.”

I thought about what to say.

“It’s a girl.”

“You’re joking. You? Hank? It’s not that one you came in with, is it?”

“No,” I lied.

“I’m happy you fell in love and all but I’m afraid I don’t see how that’s worth it.”

“This job also involves the guy who mutated us,” I said.

Xandale seemed interested in that, if I could accurately judge his smoky expressions.

“Involved how?” he asked.

“This assignment is from him.”

“You’re working for him? Why? Who is he? There’s about a hundred million or so people who want him dead.”

“He’s a Rettosian. A scientist.”

“I figured he wasn’t a magician. Though I’m surprised it was just one person.”

“He’s not just one person. He has a bunch of clones,” I said.

“Clones?”

Xandale clicked off the machines as he stood there deep in thought. He then turned them back on.

“Sorry, I still don’t see that it matters. Even if you were to kill the guy, the mutations are done. We need to get on with our lives. The Skim needs to be maintained. But tell me more about the woman.”

I flipped off the machines and Xandale turned them back on.

“She’s like me,” I said.

“Fat?”

“Why does everyone say I’m fat? I’m heavy. I’m a mutant,” I said.

“I’m a mutant, too. I’m not fat or heavy. Seriously, Hank, you’re going to get arrested when the Navy arrives.”

Xandale was right. I needed a new plan. I couldn’t keep flipping switches forever.

“Hey, Gun,” I said.

“Hello.”

“Can you shoot that guy if he turns solid?” I asked.

“I suppose,” Gun said.

“Okay, Xandale. I’m giving you the warning that you usually give me. Leave the machines off or my gun will shoot you,” I said.

“He doesn’t sound very sure,” Xandale stated.

“Gun.”

“Hello?”

“Will it kill him if you shoot him?”

“Kill him? No,” Gun replied.

My heart sank and Xandale smiled even bigger.

“Why not?” I asked uselessly. I flipped off the machines so I could hear Gun’s answer easier.

“Because he’s already dead,” Gun said.

Across the booth, Xandale turned to normal, switched the machines back on, then:

Blam!

Xandale had a bloody hole in his solid, unsmoky chest. His eyes glazed over and he slumped to the floor of the control booth.

Gun didn’t shoot. I didn’t feel tired. And he didn’t say “bang” like he always does. The sound came from behind me somewhere.

“Do you want me to shoot him now?” Gun asked.

“No,” I said.

I went over to check on Xandale, who I found was very much dead.

“Good work, Hank,” Najosa said, as she climbed up into the booth.

“What happened?” I asked.

“I shot him. I saw him changing back and forth and I timed it right when he had his hand over the switch.”

She activated her tele.

“Nordan, Meltar, get this cargo hold restored to order. The lifter is going to be here any moment,” she said.

“On it,” came the reply.

I couldn’t get over the fact that Xandale was dead.

I’ve killed a lot of people in my life, but almost none of them were worthy of respect. They were just cogs, their faces blurred in my memory. But Xandale, for all his annoyance, was legit. He knew the code and played by the rules—however loosely we defined them. I didn’t like the fact I had a part in his murder.

At least not like this.

The lights turned back on, along with the gravity, and the containers rearranged themselves back into an ordered state.

“We’re here,” Alase said on the tele.

“We need to get three containers. First, we have to find out which ones have electronics in them,” Najosa started.

“We don’t have time. Grab one container and everyone get out of here,” I said.

“Our deal was for three large containers,” Najosa told me.

“Xandale said he called the Navy, they could be here any minute.”

“He could have lied about that.”

“He wasn’t. It takes ten seconds to call the Navy and he knew we were coming as of two days ago.”

“We can take out any Navy. They won’t be well-equipped if they think they’re going to be dealing with robbers.”

“I’m not fighting the Navy on Belvaille. They’ll put the whole station under martial law. I know how they operate.”

“Who cares about this station?” she asked.

“I do!”

“You’re not running this team, Hank. I am,” Najosa said icily.

“You’re right. You are. But if you want to fight the Navy, that’s your business. I’m walking. I’ll help you take one container and that’s it. There’s no way we can make three trips at heavy lifter speed and still escape.”

Najosa was stewing. I honestly didn’t know what she was going to say now that I gave her an ultimatum.

“Alright. But our client won’t be happy. We’ll have to do a make-up job for him. He already paid us,” she said.

“Whatever. Let’s get this done.”





CHAPTER 49




We had convinced the Emerald Crusader to rename himself something a little less ostentatious. He wanted to be called the Green Crusader, but we got him to settle for Ermie.

Ermie had a few jobs around our new apartment in City Hall.

Because he was so low to the ground, he could find all the hidden dusty areas that Cliston missed with the vacuum. He also helped me take off and put on my socks and shoes.

And finally, he was our elevator man. Robot.

When he would find out I was leaving the apartment, he ran out the door, down the hall, and up a little ladder we had installed by the elevator. Then he would punch the button. Once the doors opened, he would hold them for me. He had a similar ladder on the inside so he could select the ground floor.

Socks or no, I couldn’t see that Ermie had a place here long term. It wasn’t terribly hard to hide a six-inch robot on a deserted space station. But the risk vs. reward simply wasn’t there.

I would be absolutely lost without Cliston. In fact, I couldn’t even remember how I ever survived without him. I think I wore the same clothes a lot, only ate out at restaurants, and didn’t know about the mating rituals of Dorponian Herfonites.

But Ermie was no Cliston.

“What are we going to do with him?” I asked Cliston one night.

“I don’t know, sir. But you have to appreciate that he is merely a pawn in this.”

“He’s about the size of a pawn. Harboring him is dangerous. The Navy is on orders to kill all Dredel Led.”

“I’m a Dredel Led, sir.”

“I know. But you make my pancakes. There’s got to be somewhere we can send him.”

“He doesn’t remember how he arrived here and Dredel Led territory is a long, difficult journey away. As I said, I believe he was created erroneously. He is not a typical military Dredel Led.”

“What is he typical of? Was he designed to clean toilets or something and they just sent the wrong robot with the wrong instructions?”

“I’ve never heard of a Dredel Led like him, sir.”

“So he’s like Kai’Un in that regards?”

“Kai’Un has a million minds. Ermie…well, let’s just say he does not.”

I thought back to something that Mr. Boshe had said.

“Hey, do Dredel Led fart?” I asked.

“Excuse me?”

“Do you guys like, you know, toot. Fart? Have waste?” I asked seriously.

Cliston paused.

“Different models work differently. I would not say that, for the most part, we expel gasses like many Colmarians do.”

“And Ontakians,” I added.

“Yes. But we do put out heat and various electromagnetic radiations. I suppose one might consider them waste.”

“Hah. I knew it. Wait, so are your farts going to give me cancer?”

“No, sir. It isn’t that kind of radiation.”

“Getting back to Ermie, can you go to Thaxmultaerea and try and get him a ride out of here? Or at least find out what he’s supposed to do?”

“He was supposed to destroy the Colmarian empire. His programming was clear. He just lacked any ability to accomplish it or any insights into how he might go about doing it.”

“Sounds like my professional glocken career.”

“You were quite skilled at glocken, sir. If you had gone to more practices and we hadn’t been playing illegal mutant teams, we may have won the Championship.”

“Do you think I could go back to Thaxmultaerea? I know you took the helmet device thing before my house exploded.”

“I can’t see you being allowed back, sir.”

“What about if I fixed their hacking problem? Do you think we could still get paid on that?”

“That might actually work. But I worry you would be considered a traitor, sir.”

“Why would the Dredel Led care if I was a traitor?”

“Not my people, the PCC.”

“How can I be a traitor to an empire I’m not even a part of? What are they going to do, make me a citizen and then take away my citizenship?”

“I’m anxious that they might kill you, sir.”

I laughed.

“Just about every job I’ve ever done in the last six hundred years has put my life on the line. Usually for work I’m getting paid thousands of credits to do. This job is for fifty million!”

“I honestly can’t say how the Dredel Led will react while we’re at war. And I don’t believe we have a chance of restoring normal relations until we discover what Kai’Un truly is.”

“He’s a big robot who doesn’t like Colmarians. You said that different Dredel Led take turns voting in Thaxmultaerea.”

“That is correct, sir.”

“So when Kai’Un cycles out of the voting pool, won’t they just vote to cancel the war?” I asked.

“No, sir. It is very difficult to make decisions like that. It takes almost a unanimous opinion to start or stop a war. It’s why Kai’Un wields so much influence. Because he somehow managed to get all his minds to vote the same way.”

“If we found him, maybe we could convince him to vote for peace. Or unplug him.”

“I could not determine where he was located or his primary function. He was incredibly secretive.”

“What do you think the chances are of the Dredel Led sending more Ermies to attack us?”

“I think the concern is that Kai’Un will leave Thaxmultaerea and no longer be corrupting the creation of new Dredel Led. In which case more Dredel Led will come attack, but they won’t be inferior specimens like Ermie.”





CHAPTER 50




I was flying out to meet Gax.

The Marquor of Lunacy. The Unfathomable. The Disreputable.

A member of the Boranjame, the most powerful species in the galaxy.

And I was going without an invitation.

This was the first time I had ever presumed to meet a Boranjame on my terms. It was an entirely arrogant and highly dangerous action. But Gax could see the future and I couldn’t. I couldn’t even make sense of the present.

I was hoping the worst he would do was not see me. Then I would have merely wasted a flight out here. Of course, he might also have weapons on that big glowing ship of his and turn the Suckface into the Junkface.

But they allowed us to dock and the Po let me disembark.

I was taken before Gax where his giant tele screens were hooked up.

I got out my own tele so I could record the complicated and confusing poetry that Gax tended to write.



Leave. You should not have come here.



The screen printed.

That wasn’t very poetic.



“I killed one of the Aggatars,” I said.



Agglatar.



“Yeah, him.”



You cannot end the endless.

You cannot kill the unborn.

Your search for peace will bring about war.

Yellow.



I copied it all down. I should get Gun to talk to this guy. Maybe they would appreciate each other. But I felt it was a bad idea to pull a weapon on a Boranjame. Even if it was just to talk.

“We’re already at war. Is there another war? And what’s unborn?” I asked.



You fight with yourself in a cave of deception.



“A cave? I live in City Hall. I could really use some pointers here. Some clear instructions. A lot is going on and I don’t understand any of it.”



Nothing is clear.

The closer you look, the farther your answers will flee.



I was about to open my mouth and ask more when:



Hank. Leave.



About twenty Po servants streamed out and ushered me back to my ship.

I must have had about ten thousand handprints all over me from their “guidance.”



“Did you learn anything?” Zzzho asked, when I returned to the Suckface.

“I have no idea how the Boranjame became so powerful. If I talked like him, every person who met me would want to kill me.”

“I guess it didn’t turn out so good.”

“I really wonder if when they’re alone, the Boranjame drop the funny talk and have a big crystalline belly laugh at our expense. I honestly think they’re mocking us.”

“Us?” Zzzho asked. “You’re the only one who ever talks to them.”





CHAPTER 51




“So why are we out here? I thought we weren’t going to get paid if we find who is hacking the Dredel Led,” Delovoa asked.

I was currently driving him, and his detection equipment, around Belvaille.

“Cliston thinks that maybe if I find the hack, they’ll let me back into Thaxmultaerea. Then I could argue that I deserve to be paid. And while I was at it, I might try and stop the war with the PCC,” I said.

“Why do you care about the war? It’s not like we’re citizens.”

“The last Dredel Led that came here because of the war promptly attacked me. It’s in my self-interest to have peace.”

“How is the Emerald Crusader doing?”

“Ermie. I guess he’s okay. I think he’s getting a bit of cabin fever since we don’t let him out of the apartment.”

“So you’ve got a Dredel Led prisoner? Not a good first step to peace.”

“He’s not a prisoner. Cliston explained it’s for his own good that he stays indoors. If someone from the Navy spots him, they’ll open fire.”

“He’d be hard to hit—hey, watch that car!” Delovoa yelled.

“Woops.”

“Has anyone told you you’re a terrible driver?”

“No.”

“What makes you think the hacking equipment is still on Belvaille? The Navy could put it on any one of those cruisers floating out there.”

“I’m counting on the PCC bureaucracy. At some point, they must have submitted a million forms and approvals to get the hacking facility constructed on Belvaille. It’s probably easier to rebuild it instead of trying to get approval all over again to put it somewhere else.”

“Smart,” Delovoa said.

“I have my moments.”

We drove past the building where I destroyed the equipment the first time.

“This is where it was earlier,” I said.

“I’m not detecting anything. When you used this scanner before, weren’t you on the latticework?”

“Yeah, Cliston helped me. But it’s a lot safer driving.”

“Safer for whom?”



We had crisscrossed the city a number of times and I was starting to lose hope.

“I think I should have mapped out a systematic route instead of driving in circles,” I said.

“That’s all we need is for you to be looking at a map while driving. You know, if you do get paid by the Dredel Led, I get my 4% of the fifty million,” Delovoa said.

“2%.”

“How is it you forget or fumble every single number you’ve ever seen except when it comes to money?”

“Those are the only numbers that are important.”

“Stop,” Delovoa said abruptly.

I slammed on the brakes and Delovoa smacked against the windshield.

“Dammit!” He shouted, when he flopped back on the seat.

“You said stop.”

“I’m picking up a faint signal that matches the pattern we’re looking for.”

“It’s the hack?” I asked.

“I just said it matches the pattern.”

“Okay, which way do I go?”

“Um, that way,” he said.

“There’s a building there.”

Delovoa stared at me.

“I know this may sound crazy, but you can drive around buildings using something called ‘streets.’”

“Alright. Alright.”

I turned and headed north.

“Keep going,” he said.

“We’re going to run out of space station in a little while,” I replied.

“The signal is getting stronger.”

“Can you tell what they’re hacking, exactly? Like, could you break apart the signal and see what they see?”

“No, it’s far too complicated for that. It’s also not remotely my expertise. Garm might know something about it. She’s a former Intelligence operative, right?”

“Yeah, Garm,” I said absently.

And I stopped the car, because there were no streets left in this direction.

“The telescopes,” Delovoa said, looking where we were.

We had reached the northernmost section of the station. The buildings that controlled the telescopes were right in front of us.

“I knew Garm was in on the hack,” I said.

“She might not know.”

“No way. Garm wouldn’t let an operation like this happen under her nose without being intimately involved.”

“So she lied to you. Is that really anything new?” Delovoa asked.

“No. And the Boranjame told me to be careful who I trusted. But Garm swore up and down she didn’t know anything about the hack. And because of her lies, she kept me from earning fifty million credits, and maybe even helped start the war with the Dredel Led.”

“Didn’t you start it by subconsciously hating the PCC when you were in Thaxmultaerea?” Delovoa asked.

“Yeah, but that was an accident. She’s doing this on purpose.”

“You’re not going to attack the telescope installations, are you?” he asked uneasily.

“I’m not crazy. But I’ll say this, I’m absolutely through with trusting Garm.”





CHAPTER 52




“Let me see if I understand this. You expected to steal three cargo containers from a transport, then hire a different transport to haul the containers immediately afterward? And you thought no one would notice? There aren’t a lot of people in the shipping industry on Belvaille you know,” I told Najosa.

We were in my apartment in City Hall. And I had just learned that we needed to deliver the stolen electronic components off-station. The problem was, we had violated the rules of the Skim.

My rules. The rules I had made everyone agree to at the outset.

It was going to be really difficult finding anyone to help us.

“We only have one container because of you,” Najosa said.

“We aren’t in jail because of me,” I corrected. “Xandale called the Navy and we had limited time to get the goods and get out of there.”

“You have a ship. We can use that to haul the container.”

“The Suckface is a military corvette. It isn’t exactly a freighter. It can barely hold a small crew. Where are we going to put 120,000 pounds of electronics?”

“Can’t you pull it?”

“It’s not a tow truck. Let me get Delovoa down here. Maybe he’ll have some ideas. But you’re going to have to pay him,” I warned.

“We didn’t even complete the mission. We’re going to have to do extra work to earn what we were already paid,” she said.

“That’s fine, but Delovoa wasn’t part of that contract. We need his help.”



A while later, Delovoa came downstairs and was currently scrutinizing Najosa. This was the first time he had met her.

“You’re shorter than I was expecting,” he said after a while.

“Never mind that. How can we move a large cargo container to another station?” I asked.

“Use your ship,” Delovoa shrugged.

Najosa wasn’t the kind of person to say, “I told you so.”

“How can we? The container is too big.”

“It’s space, it doesn’t have to be aerodynamic. Just strap it on top. Or bottom. Or wherever. As long as it doesn’t block the engines or maneuvering rockets you’re fine.”

“So how do I get it to my ship? I can’t push 120,000 pounds.”

“Where is it now?”

“It’s in a warehouse. But we damaged the heavy lifter moving it the first time.”

“The container is a big metal rectangle, right?” Delovoa asked.

“Yeah. It’s metal and painted blue.”

“Oh! Why didn’t you tell me it was painted blue earlier? That changes everything!” Delovoa said sarcastically.

“You going to help or not?”

“I have an invention that can move the container,” he said.

“Is it some anti-gravity device?” I asked.

“I like to call it…a ‘wheel.’”

“What?” Najosa asked.

“Yes. I take these ‘wheels’ and put them on the bottom of things. The angular momentum of the system helps overcome much of the friction caused by trying to drag a heavy object across a flat surface. You see, the wheels turn.”

“How are we going to lift it and attach wheels, smart guy?” I asked.

“I have another invention. It’s called a ‘lever.’ It’s basically a long rod you wedge under something. It allows you to lift heavy objects with minimal effort.”

“Even if it’s on wheels it’s still heavy as hell. How are we going to push it?”

Delovoa thought.

“I can’t say I invented this, but there are things called ‘automobiles’ which have the ability to push and pull tremendous loads.”

“I’m not going to smash up my car trying to push this container.”

“There are plenty of derelict vehicles on Belvaille. Including some heavy-duty trucks. No one took their cars with them when they left the city,” Delovoa explained patiently.

“How much is this technical advice going to cost us?” Najosa asked.

“You consider this technical advice? I guess you Ontakians are all alike. How about you buy me dinner and we’ll call it even,” he said.



Delovoa was right. We used hydraulic jacks to lift the container onto a flatbed trailer. We then used a truck to drive it to where the Suckface was docked.

But this was the hard part.

Not that it was a difficult concept to attach a container to my ship, but we didn’t have expertise at the complicated port controls needed to lift and maneuver the container.

I was really worried we were going to damage my ship, which was by far my most valuable possession since my house got blown up.

It took a good three hours, but we secured the container to the side of my ship with a lot of chains and strap-fasteners.

Zzzho was a good enough pilot that he could fly with no problems, but he said we were limited to 25% of normal acceleration and deceleration.

The Society of the Free and Easy all poured onto my ship.

“So where are we taking this thing, anyway?” I asked.

“The space station Floloria,” Najosa said.

“Floloria?” I asked, surprised.

I thought we were going to have to take Portals and travel quite a distance. Apparently, Thad’s Friend was still living on the Rettosian city. I hadn’t been to the space station since Delovoa and I had been attacked there by guys with weird repulsion rifles.

We made it to Floloria with no issues, though it was a painfully slow trip.

When we were docked, a number of Rettosian workers helped unload the cargo container. It was the first time I had seen actual Rettosians doing something close to manual labor.

I couldn’t understand what they were saying, but something about them struck me as odd. Not just the fact they were Rettosian, and thus their skin was liquid and swirling. But they simply worked…too well together.

I’ve been around blue collar workers all my life. These men didn’t joke around, didn’t have any kind of hierarchy that I could see, and they actually cared about their work. Not only that, they moved as if they were all in a symbiotic relationship. I’d never seen such perfect cohesion.

One of the Rettosians put us in a van and drove our crew deeper into the city as I pondered what I had seen.

“Let me do the talking,” Najosa said sternly.

The car stopped at a nondescript building, though all the buildings here were nondescript, and we got out.

We were met by several guards, who were wearing the same body armor and carrying the same weapons as the guys who had attacked me last time I was here.

I panicked and wondered if they were indeed the ones I had faced before. I didn’t feel like getting pushed through buildings again.

But they simply flanked us as we walked into the building.

Inside, it was really warm. I began perspiring immediately.

We went down a dark hallway and it became instantly clear why the building was so hot. There were electronics everywhere. The floor. The walls. The ceiling. The place was crammed with complicated electrical systems.

I wished Delovoa was here, he might be able to tell what it was. It didn’t look familiar to me, but then again, I wasn’t exactly an ace engineer.

Thad’s Friend met the security guards and they talked to each other briefly in Rettosian. Or I assumed it was Rettosian. It sounded snobby.

As I watched them, I suddenly realized: everyone here was a clone!

It’s why the dock workers had been so cohesive. They were all the same person. They were clones of the Rettosian scientist, Thad’s Friend. It had been so hard to notice because Thad’s Friend was ancient and the other clones were everything from teenager to middle aged.

“You have failed in the task I set to you,” Thad’s Friend said.

“We secured one large container but had to leave before the Navy showed up,” Najosa replied.

“It was my understanding that you not only could deal with such an eventuality, but you looked forward to it,” he answered icily.

Najosa struggled for a response.

“If we attacked the Navy, we would have lost our base of operations—we would have had to flee Belvaille,” I said.

Thad’s Friend looked at me and I wondered if he would finally remember who I was. You know, one of the guys who was there the last time he was murdered.

But he only acknowledged me for a second, as if I was barely worth that much attention.

“Very well. I have another assignment for you,” he said.

Najosa elbowed me.

“Of course. And we’ll do it for free,” she said.

Free? That word was painful. He hadn’t even said what the job was and she already gave it away. Najosa was not the best negotiator.

“There is a ship coming in a few weeks to this System. It contains a representative from the Colmarian Confederation Parliament.”

“The Colmarian Confederation?” I asked, confused.

Najosa elbowed me again. Hard.

“Yes,” Thad’s Friend stated.

“But there is no Confederation. It’s gone.” I was honestly puzzled. Was this guy so old and out of touch that he thought the Colmarian Confederation still existed?

“The name has changed. That is all.”

“We went over this, Hank,” Najosa said through clenched teeth.

“What do you want done?” I asked, ignoring Najosa.

“Kill everyone on board. This will be your chance to strike directly at the empire you despise.”

The Society of the Free and Easy practically cheered at the news.

I was trying to figure out what his angle was. What did Thad’s Friend get out of this? Sure, he had helped Thad Elon start the Colmarian Confederation’s civil war, so maybe he just hated Colmarians. But this wasn’t his style. Assassinating a ship full of people was too small. This guy mutated an entire System. Billions of people. That was his style.

I looked around at the room.

“So, this place. I guess you needed the components for this? Is it some kind of…electrical…like…electrical thing?”

Thad’s Friend didn’t even look at me this time.

“I will send you the detailed instructions on the ship. Do you think you can accomplish this endeavor?” he asked, full of doubt.

“Absolutely,” Najosa said. “It will be our pleasure.”





CHAPTER 53




“You don’t question the scientist,” Najosa said to me, when we were back on my ship. “It’s not our job.”

“Job? I thought jobs were things that paid money. You offered our services for free. Assassinating for free,” I said distastefully.

“We owe him for not finishing the last assignment,” she said.

“You don’t even know his name! Why are you all so enamored of that guy? Just because he’s old?”

“He provides us with information, money, equipment. He’s been a great partner,” Najosa said stubbornly.

“I thought you all hated Rettosians. They created and enslaved our species.”

“These guys are too young to have actually fought any Rettosians in our rebellion,” Frank said. “I hate the Rettosians.”

“You hate everyone,” I told Frank.

“I don’t hate everyone. I’m just old enough to know that most people have plenty of reasons to be disliked,” Frank said.

“And why does a Rettosian on an empty space station want some politician killed?” I asked.

“Who cares?” Nordan said. “It’s our chance to eliminate important members of the PCC.”

“I care. You should too. He’s up to something. Besides, do you think a Member of Parliament is going to be unguarded? That you can just walk in and shoot him without a fight?”

“I hope there’s a fight,” he replied.

These guys were so annoying!

“But why? What do you, the Society of the Free and Easy, get out of trying to assassinate some very difficult to assassinate people?” I asked.

“Hank, you know we’re trying to destroy the Colmarian Confederation,” Najosa stated calmly.

“It’s already destroyed! It’s gone! This is the PCC.”

“Only the name has changed,” she said.

“You’re mimicking what he said. A whole lot more than the name has changed. Everyone who was in charge back then is dead and gone. It’s a whole new form of government. Granted, it’s a really bad form of government, but how is assassinating this guy going to change things? What if he is the one good politician in the whole place?”

“I don’t care what they call themselves. The government destroyed our home world. Hunted and hounded our people to extinction—” Najosa said.

“We’re not extinct,” I countered, holding my arms up. “I’m on a ship surrounded by Ontakians.”

“Compared to a planet’s population, we are all but extinct,” she said. “Don’t you think that’s worth punishing them for?”

“Punishing who? Do you know who gave the order to destroy our planet?” I asked.

“Grand Wardian Jea-Dahl,” she said immediately.

“Oh. Well, that was a rhetorical question. But okay, why not punish him?”

“He died more than a century ago,” she said.

“Exactly. At some point, you have to move on. Stealing from the PCC is one thing, but murdering random people only sort of connected to our history doesn’t make any sense,” I said.

“Hank. The Society of the Free and Easy won’t rest until we have destroyed the Colmarian Confederation—and its offshoots,” she said.

I looked around the ship and everyone was staring at me like I was some kind of idiot or traitor.

Except Frank. Frank looked bored.



When I had returned home, and was mercifully free of the Society of the Free, I told Cliston about what had happened.

“I’m not an assassin,” I said.

“But sir, you’ve killed people for money before.”

“Yeah, but those weren’t assassinations. That was part of a job.”

“Forgive me, but what’s the difference?”

“There’s a huge difference.”

“It seems to me you’re getting paid for murdering someone in either case. I’m not criticizing, I just wish to understand,” he said.

“Maybe it’s not a huge difference. It’s a subtle difference.”

I thought about how to phrase this.

“If I kill someone who is in my line of work, who is a criminal, that’s not an assassination. They’re crooks. If I get murdered tomorrow, it won’t be some gigantic surprise. The only surprise will be how long it took to happen. A normal person’s everyday work doesn’t involve murder. Mine does. You can’t assassinate a killer. To them it’s simply a career change.”

“So what are you going to do about the Member of Parliament? Will you assassinate him?”

“My gut tells me to have nothing to do with it. Sit this mission out. But if I do that, that politician will die, anyway. If I have an active part or passive part, the outcome will be the same. If I don’t want that outcome, I have to work against the Society of the Free and Easy. And Najosa.”

“And your uncle?” Cliston asked.

“Frank is Frank. As soon as she said we were doing this for free I don’t think he was interested.”

“Would you really work against your Ontakian friends, sir? I know you’ve been happy to have contact with people from your own species.”

“My species sucks, Cliston. I have nothing in common with them. I’m a mutant Ontakian who grew up among Colmarian criminals. The only thing I have in common with the average Ontakian is we can get high off the same drugs.”

“But what about their mission of destroying the PCC? The Society of the Free and Easy seems rather serious about it.”

“The PCC isn’t what they say it is. I haven’t experienced a whole lot of good governments in my life. But compared to anarchy, compared to corporate rule, compared to feudalism, the PCC is damn okay. I mean, what could take its place? How do you govern half of the galaxy in an effective manner?”

“I do not know, sir.”

“I don’t think you can. It’s too big. It’s too complicated. There’s so many planets all with their own identities and problems. Just Belvaille, this tiny little speck of a space station, has all sorts of issues. Multiply that by a zillion and then try and wrap a government around it. Of course it’s screwed up,” I said.

“Sir, far be it from me to suggest a course of action, but I agree with you. I do not think you can allow the Society of the Free and Easy to assassinate that politician. At least until you know more about him and the reasons he is to be eliminated. What if Thad’s Friend is trying to start another war?”

“That’s all we need. As if the Dredel Led aren’t bad enough—no offense.”

“None taken, of course.”





CHAPTER 54




“Wow, where is everyone?” I asked.

The Club was nearly empty. Just a bunch of low level neck breakers and shuttle jockeys stinking up the place.

The waiter shrugged.

“Not sure, but I’ve only made three credits in tips the whole night,” he said, as he deposited my food in front of me, his eyes expectant.

“I would have tipped you fine if you hadn’t begged for it,” I replied.

The waiter scowled but said nothing.

“Hey, here.” I handed him four credits. “There. I more than doubled your salary.”

“Thanks,” he said, leaving.

“Hank,” Rendrae called from out of nowhere, almost making me choke on my sausages.

“Thad Elon’s Black Eyes, what do you want, Rendrae?”

Rendrae was a journalist. The only journalist left on the space station. He was fat and green and old and unbelievably knowledgeable about the inner workings of Belvaille.

He still edited, reported, and published his online tele journal, The News.

“How’s it going?” he asked.

For some reason, Rendrae was wearing a spacesuit, complete with helmet, but the face shields weren’t down.

“What’s with the outfit? You doing interviews in outer space now?” I asked.

“It’s a style. I’m thinking of starting a new column on the details of the Skim. You know, what’s working, what isn’t, new laws. What do you think?” he asked.

“Are you insane? If some Navy official reads it, they’ll throw everyone on this station in jail,” I said.

“I’ll write in code like I used to do back when Belvaille was in Ginland. I’m even planning on having another Most Influential List.”

“Just don’t get anyone arrested,” I said.

“So about my list. I’m thinking of putting you down as number ten. Unless the meeting goes against you. What do you think? Has anyone reached out to you about it?”

“Reached out about what?” I asked.

“The meeting. Your trial,” he said.

“What trial? What are you talking about, Rendrae?”

“Are you serious? Where do you think everyone is right now?”

“They’re at a trial? A trial of what?” I asked.

“Of you, Hank. For breaking the rules of the Skim against Roll Bungalow. I thought you would know. They’re deciding what to do about you.”

“Who?” I asked, alarmed.

“Everyone.”



I got the location of the meeting from Rendrae and practically sprinted to my car.

If I was smarter, I would go home first and get some backup.

But I wasn’t that smart.

The “trial” location was out in the southwest of the station. There must have been about a hundred parked cars out here, so clearly something big was going down.

I ran inside, past the very startled security guards, and kicked open the doors to the auditorium.

There were maybe 500 people inside who all turned simultaneously at my interruption. It looked like nearly every gang boss who had a piece of the Skim was sitting in here.

“Hi. I hope I’m not intruding,” I said.

Their expressions showed everything from guilt to anger to fear.

I put up my hands.

“Look. I’m unarmed,” I said.

“You got that talking gun you always brag about right on your hip,” someone pointed out.

“Yeah, but he’s a philosopher,” I said.

I pulled out Gun.

“Gun?” I asked him.

“Hello,” Gun answered pleasantly.

“Don’t shoot anyone in this room under any circumstances,” I said.

“What room?” Gun asked. I had him currently pointed at the ceiling.

“See?” I said to the group.

“Oh, that room.” I had waved Gun around and apparently he had gotten a better look at the surroundings.

I felt this was a precarious situation and I didn’t want to make it worse by arguing with Gun in front of everyone.

“Forget it. Here. Roll Bungalow?” I called out.

He didn’t stand up. But enough people turned their heads that I saw where he was in the crowd. He probably wondered if I was going to shoot him. Which maybe wasn’t a bad idea.

Instead, I tossed Gun to him and he caught it like the former professional glocken player he was.

“You hold him,” I said.

Roll stared at the gun in his hand until someone beside him objected.

“Don’t point that damn thing at me!”

“Right. So I understand this is my trial. I think it’s only fair that I be here,” I said.

“What’s fair is that we all establish the rules of the Skim and adhere to them,” Ulteem said.

Ulteem was one of the biggest gang bosses on the station. He looked like a regular Colmarian except he didn’t have a head. He wore prosthetic heads to try and appear normal, but they tended to have exaggerated features which were really off-putting. This one had a shaggy blue wig and huge eyes.

“I know the rules of the Skim. I set them up, remember?” I said.

“Then why did you cut in on Roll Bungalow and rob that freighter? You know what that does? What that does to all of us?” Podiver Vance asked.

“I know,” I said.

“That freighter’s crew reported that it was burgled. While on this station. That’s exactly the kind of attention we can’t have. There’s Navy people searching around the docks right as we speak. We’ve had to suspend all Skim activities while they’re nosing around. That’s millions of credits on hold because you had to steal a cargo container,” Podiver Vance continued.

“Just because you’re bulletproof doesn’t mean you’re a god,” a boss said.

Some mumbles of agreement at that.

There were a lot of unhappy faces in the crowd. I had really stepped in it by coming here.

“I know if you all get together you can kill me. I ain’t so tough I can shrug off every guy in this room,” I said. “I came here to try and talk my side.”

“Then what’s your side?” Ulteem asked.

I paused, not sure how I could dig myself out of this.

“You know I’m Master Overseer of Navy and Belvaille Relations—” I started.

“That means nothing,” someone blurted.

“Yeah, the Navy doesn’t care about us. If you die, they’ll just appoint another Master Overseer. And they’ll keep doing it as long as it’s in their best interest to have one. Don’t pretend anyone in the Navy gives a damn about you. You’re just a crook like we are,” Podiver Vance said.

Ouch. Podiver was still probably mad that I got his old store blown up. Everyone with a grudge against me, which was quite a few people, must have been airing their grievances.

This was a lot worse than I had suspected. I shouldn’t have given away Gun.

“I also talk with the Boranjame. I spoke with The Marquor of Lunacy, Gax, the Unfathomable and Disreputable,” I said.

“Did he give you any money?” a young boss heavy into forgeries asked.

“Money? No. He’s a Boranjame. He talks in confusing poetry,” I said.

“Exactly. We’re dirt to the Boranjame. They haven’t done anything for the Colmarians except tell us to leave this or that solar system so they could strip mine it. If you were pals with the Boranjame you wouldn’t even be talking to us,” he said astutely.

“You’re right. I’m just a crook. I’ve been a gangster since before anyone in this room was born. Probably before your parents were born. Maybe some of you have heard of the things I’ve done, maybe you haven’t. But I’ve broken my neck to keep this city whole. To keep our way of life sound. I don’t want to run things, I just want my fair slice of the pie,” I said.

“‘Fair slice.’ You stepped outside that when you broke the Skim,” Roll Bungalow said.

I could tell that they had already decided. That I had lost this trial before I barged in.

“Look, the big thing I do, that I’ve always done, that has kept me alive this long, is I don’t take sides. I’m a bag man. A fixer. A negotiator. I’ve been shot probably a thousand times, and unlike most people, I don’t hold grudges.”

“A dead man’s grudges hardly matter,” a boss said ominously.

“I screwed up. I’m not too big to admit it. I shouldn’t have done what I done. I should have let Roll Bungalow keep his Skim. It was a mistake. I didn’t think it through.”

“What can you give us? I know you’ve done things. Important things for this station over the…centuries. But we don’t want that. We just want to run the Skim. We don’t want the attention of the Boranjame, the Navy, the Dredel Led. Are you worth the trouble you bring, Hank?” Ulteem asked.

“In my experience, trouble comes whether you bring it or not. I don’t know if Belvaille will break without me. It will probably get along just fine. I can’t pay you back for your missed Skim. I don’t have that kind of money. But if you’re not going to look at the major things I’ve done, just look at my work as a thug. You know if I take a job, I’ll give you a fair shake. That’s what being bulletproof allows me to do. The next time someone comes knocking at your door, to collect a debt, or settle a fight, or even rough you up, do you want it to be some paranoid, trigger-happy kid, or do you want it to be me?”

There were widespread grumblings at that, like 500 people were all saying “murber gurber” at the same time. Then they told me to wait outside so they could discuss.

If I wasn’t so lazy, I would have been pacing the halls with nervousness. But as it was, I sat down on the carpet and rubbed my sore knees.

After a while, the doors opened and Roll Bungalow came out holding Gun. I didn’t think he had the bioelectricity to power Gun enough to do me harm, but you never know.

I stood up and he handed me back the weapon.

“That thing is annoying. I had to tell it to shut up at least three times,” he said.

“So I take it I’m not going to die?” I asked.

“We argued for fifteen minutes on how to kill you. I said it could be done, but wouldn’t be easy or worth the effort. It’s not like you’re a terrible guy. You’re just a little slow sometimes. And if we killed everyone that was stupid, there would be three people left on Belvaille,” he said.

“Thanks for sticking up for me, I guess.”

“You got to promise not to do it again, of course. And you have to pay two million credits.”

“To you? I don’t have anywhere near that much cash!” I complained.

“No, not to me. It was kind of vague on who gets paid. Podiver Vance said you probably didn’t have the money since your house got—I don’t know, what happened to your house?”

“It’s gone. So how do we do this? I got to pay someone I don’t know a bunch of money I don’t have.”

“Yeah.”

“I’ll loan you the money, Hank. 5% a month juice,” Ulteem said, walking over. His ugly prosthetic head was grinning.

“1% interest. I still owe you for setting up the Belvaille Glocken Team,” I said, remembering Ulteem’s double-cross.

“You said you don’t hold grudges.”

“Not holding grudges and having amnesia are two different things.”

“Alright. When do you think you’ll pay me back?” Ulteem asked.

“I don’t know. With all these bosses here, I guess I better see if anyone has any work for me.”

“I’d hold off on that for now,” Roll said. “About a third of the people voted to kill you.”

“I guess that’s not so bad. Two-thirds of Belvaille likes me.”

“Not exactly. A lot of people didn’t vote. So maybe a third hate you, a third like you, and a third didn’t care.”

“That’s depressing. After all I’ve done for this city,” I said.

“Most people weren’t around when you were saving the galaxy. And being bulletproof goes both ways. Yeah, it’s great if someone hired you, not so great if you’re coming to get them,” Ulteem explained.





CHAPTER 55




I was asleep in my room when Cliston’s voice woke me.

“Sir, Garm and MTB are here to see you,” he said.

That didn’t sound good, so I turned over and tried to ignore him.

“Get up, we need your help,” I heard Garm say.

I saw a fully armed MTB and Garm standing in my bedroom.

“Ugh, I barely got any sleep,” I said.

“I doubt that,” she said.

“Cliston, how long have I been asleep?” I asked, as proof.

“About thirteen hours, sir.”

“Oh. Well, no wonder I’m so tired. I overslept.”

“Can we talk without him here?” MTB asked.

“Who?” I looked around, not sure who he meant.

MTB pointed to Cliston, which truly surprised me.

“Say what you came to say,” I replied.

“A Dredel Led has landed. We believe it’s here to attack the city,” Garm said.

“Another Dredel Led? Oh, boy!” Ermie declared. He had walked into the room and no one noticed because of his small stature.

MTB and Garm stared at the tiny Emerald Crusader. They had not seen him before.

“How many robots do you have?” MTB asked.

“I don’t ‘have’ them, they work here. That’s Ermie. He tried to kill me.”

“Hi,” Ermie said. “What species are you?”

“Don’t answer that,” I said. Despite Ermie giving up his quest to annihilate Colmarians, he still didn’t hold much affection for them. “So why are you guys here? Let your PCC Navy friends deal with this,” I told Garm.

“They don’t know, yet,” she said.

“Why? Is your tele broken? I can call them if you want. This is their job, right? To protect us.”

“Last time the Navy heard there was a Dredel Led butler and—no offense—insignificant robot on the station, they fired a tachyon ray through the shield and destroyed your house.”

“How many Dredel Led are attacking?” I asked.

“One,” MTB said.

I notice he didn’t say “just” one, or “only” one. I had fought combat Dredel Led before and they beat me silly all the way across the space station. I wasn’t looking to repeat that exercise.

“Can’t your police handle them, MTB? Delovoa built you that armor and weapons,” I said.

“I don’t think our guns are going to hurt it. Besides, I only got two deputies,” he said.

“We have three cops on the entire city? That’s not even enough to give out parking tickets. I thought you had like thirty people.”

“We can’t afford to pay them and no one wants the job,” he said.

“That makes sense,” I agreed. “Okay, so what do you want me to do, talk to this Dredel Led? Or have Cliston talk to him?”

“It doesn’t seem to be much of a talker. We already tried,” Garm said.

“Are you sure it’s a Dredel Led?” I asked.

“We’re pretty damn sure,” MTB replied.



I had Gun and the bag of daxapronal that Cliston had saved from my dying house.

MTB told me to wear body armor if I had some, but I didn’t have any, so I put on three pairs of underwear instead.

Cliston and Ermie came along. I figured it couldn’t hurt to have some Dredel Led on our side.

Garm drove us to the last area the robot was seen. It wasn’t far outside the docks.

“That’s not a Dredel Led,” I said, looking through the windshield, “it’s a damn building!”

The Dredel Led in question took up nearly both lanes of the street. It was about twenty feet long, ten feet tall, and walked on four robotic legs. It had a colossal head, and its mouth looked like a construction scoop.

But other than its legs and mouth, it didn’t resemble anything. It didn’t have eyes or a nose or even a fluffy tail.

We parked on an adjoining street and got out.

The Dredel Led was moving forward, but incredibly slowly. It was clearly beyond heavy, and each footfall sent shockwaves through the road.

“Look at all that armor,” MTB said.

He was right. There were overlapping sheets of metal everywhere. This clearly wasn’t a really large and ponderous candy-making machine. Unless it was designed to manufacture candy at the bottom of an active volcano.

“So do we shoot it?” I asked.

“Excuse me, sir,” Cliston interrupted harshly. “If that was a biological creature merely walking along the street, I can’t believe your first reaction would be to shoot it.”

“We’re at war with your empire. I mean, do you know that thing? Is it your cousin?”

“I do not recognize it,” Cliston said.

“Hey!” I called to the ponderous machine. “Are you Kai’Un?”

The robot did not respond.

“Sir, the chances of it being Kai’Un are astronomical. Kai’Un has a million minds. Despite this Dredel Led’s size, it could not house that many intellects.”

“I only know three Dredel Led by name. Two of them are standing next to me right now. It didn’t hurt to ask, and would have made things a lot easier,” I said.

“Maybe it doesn’t have ears,” Garm asked.

“It is a requirement for all modern Dredel Led to have at least the senses of sight, hearing, and touch,” Cliston said.

“You have a sense of touch, Ermie?” I asked. He was so small it seemed hard to imagine.

“I do,” he said, and he patted me on my ankle as if to prove it.

“Do you recognize that thing?” I asked the Emerald Crusader.

“It looks like a big animal,” he said.

The Dredel Led in question was still thundering its way along at crawling speed.

“What kind of animal?” I asked, not having seen many animals in my life and not able to imagine one that large and slow.

“I don’t know. One that looks like that,” he replied seriously.

“We have to do something,” Garm said. “We can’t let this thing go smashing around the city.”

“It does not appear to be ‘smashing’ anything,” Cliston replied.

“He’s right. Maybe it’s looking for a bathroom,” I said.

“You said yourself we’re at war with the Dredel Led,” Garm countered.

“Does that mean you’re going to shoot me?” Cliston asked.

“No, Cliston. But you’re not a giant robot banging down a residential street.”

“It’s difficult to call Belvaille a residential city nowadays. We are probably the only people within a quarter mile,” Cliston said.

“The robot isn’t going very fast. Maybe we could have MTB’s deputies follow it and call us if it does anything hostile,” I said.

“You want to go back to sleep,” Garm yelled.

“Look, if we’ve been invaded, it seems to be happening very slowly. The robot didn’t even hit any buildings. It drives better than I do. Cliston is right, do we blast the guy just because it looks scary?”

“The Navy officials are going to find out about this. What do you think they’ll do?” Garm asked.

“You know better than me. I suspect they will over-react somehow. But that doesn’t mean we should beat them to it.”

MTB hung up his tele. He had made a call while we were talking.

“My deputies are working on another case. They can’t help out.”

I laughed.

“What is more important than this?” I asked.

“Gangland double-homicide with a follow-up retribution murder,” he said.

“Oh. Yeah, that’s pretty important,” I conceded.

“You all are impossible!” Garm said. “That thing is headed north to my telescopes.”

“By the time it gets there, they’ll be outdated,” I said. “But hey, that makes sense. It’s probably trying to stop the hack.”

“You and your stupid hack. There is no hack! I told you this,” Garm said.

“We traced it to the telescopes,” I replied.

“Who is ‘we?’ You and your Ontakian pals?” she asked.

“Delovoa.”

“That nutjob? What does he know?”

“We followed the signal. The hacking signal. It was coming from one of the telescopes. Just like the previous signal had been coming from a building guarded by Navy soldiers. Don’t pretend you don’t know what I’m talking about. That Dredel Led is here for a reason,” I said.

“With all due respect, we don’t know the reasons, sir.”

“If anyone is hacking the Dredel Led, it was done without my knowledge,” Garm said.

“So there is some mysterious department in one of your buildings, doing stuff without your permission?” I asked skeptically.

Garm thought about it.

“No. I have a project log. Every minute on those telescopes is accounted for,” she said.

“Maybe you have ghosts,” I replied, “operating when you all are off-duty.”

“We have to coordinate ship traffic at all times of day and night. Every telescope is in operation 24/7. Except for the broken one,” she said.

“What broken one? You have a busted telescope?” I asked.

“Yes. The one you broke. Before you feign innocence again, I know it was you. Right after the telescope was attacked, and its security defenses had been activated, you ended up in the hospital. Not to mention there’s a big Hank-sized hole in the dish.”

I stood there with my mouth open.

“The power plant,” I said.

“What?” she asked.

“I went on a mission to steal a power plant from a remote military base, with assistance from the other Ontakians.”

“I thought you said that wasn’t you,” Garm teased.

“You know it was. Zzzho logged the name of our ship as the ‘Don’t Tell Them It’s The Suckface.’ I then stole a similar power plant from Belvaille. From the building that was hacking. I bet it was the same power generator. They installed it on Belvaille after we swiped it from the PCC.”

“Was that where I injured my hand?” Cliston asked.

“Yeah. As for the telescope, the Ontakians said it wasn’t really damaged, it just looked like it. They managed to hijack it. That’s probably why you think it’s broken. And now we traced the current hack to one of the telescopes. I assumed it was your people doing it. But it wasn’t.”

“What are you saying?” Garm asked.

“The Dredel Led were going to pay me fifty million credits for stopping the hack. But I’ve been helping the Ontakians set it up this whole time.”





CHAPTER 56




We were still walking along with the giant Dredel Led.

Cliston was trying to speak to it, but having no success. Ermie was even helping out, but mostly just repeating what Cliston said.

I was still annoyed about my discovery that I had been the cause of the Dredel Led hack this whole time. I wondered if Najosa had known. I never told her I was looking for a hack of the Dredel Led, maybe she would have said, “oh, that’s us.”

“What I don’t get is why the Ontakians would want to hack the Dredel Led,” Garm asked.

“I’m thinking they might not have known. They might have been doing it for Thad’s Friend, and didn’t ask any questions,” I said.

“Who is Thad’s Friend?” MTB asked.

“He’s that old Rettosian who helped Thad Elon with his glocken teams,” I said.

“You mean the one who mutated Belvaille System?” Garm asked, shocked. She knew of the man, having been one of my teammates in Super Class glocken.

“Yeah.”

“Why would they be doing it for him?” Garm asked.

“Well, because we did some other jobs for him,” I answered weakly.

“You’re working for the guy who mutated Belvaille?” MTB asked.

“I mean, not really working for him. I did a few jobs for him. Maybe more than I know. But Cliston, Delovoa and I figured he was up to something and the best way to find out was to play along.”

“So you hacked the Dredel Led and they declared war on us?” Garm tried to confirm.

“I don’t think they declared war on us because of that. They were mad at us and then I went to the capital city and…well, I accidentally convinced them to declare war.”

“Why is it every time something gigantic and horrible happens in this galaxy, you’re right there as the cause?” she asked.

“Luck?” I said.

“What I want to know is, are you going to apologize?” Garm asked.

“Apologize to who?”

“Me! Because you accused me a hundred times of hacking your precious Dredel Led and it turns out you were the one doing it,” she said.

“It wasn’t only me. I don’t know how to hack anything. But I will later,” I said.

“You’ll apologize later?”

“Mreh,” I mumbled.

“Because it will take three hours or something? Just say you’re sorry,” she replied.

“Here come the bots,” I said.

Cliston and Ermie walked over to us.

“I’ve tried every language and form of communication I know and have not been able to elicit a response,” Cliston said.

“I waved at it,” Ermie added.

“Why doesn’t Hank go over and explain that he’s the reason we’re at war?” Garm asked.

“I don’t see how that will help anything,” I replied.

“Maybe it will step on you and make the universe a safer place,” she said.

“There’ll be a lot more food left for the rest of us,” MTB agreed.

“Hey! I didn’t know the Ontakians were working for Thad’s Friend…at first. And I never would have guessed he was hacking the Dredel Led. How could I possibly know that?”

“The real question is, why is he hacking?” Cliston asked.

“He mutated millions of people. Doesn’t he hate Colmarians?” Garm asked.

“I hate Colmarians,” Ermie stated.

We all stared at him a moment.

“I don’t know that Thad’s Friend hates anything. He struck me more as a psychopathic inventor. Like an extreme version of Delovoa—but way more talented,” I said.

“Okay, why would a psychopathic inventor want to hack the Dredel Led?” Garm asked.

“I don’t know. Just a natural, scientific curiosity?” I guessed.

“It was more than idle curiosity that brought this Dredel Led here,” Garm countered.

“And me too,” Ermie added.

“That’s right. Ermie was sent to destroy the Colmarian Confederation,” I said.

“I’m taking a break,” he piped. “I’m trying to become a butler.”

“Sir, you asked if that Dredel Led was Kai’Un,” Cliston said.

“You think it is? I thought a million minds couldn’t fit in there,” I replied.

“They couldn’t, sir. But I also said I had never experienced anything like Kai’Un. That our historical files didn’t have any record of a Dredel Led similar to him.”

“Kai’Un is that Dredel Led that voted for war, right?” Garm asked.

“Yes,” I said.

“He was also extremely secretive and unlike any Dredel Led I have seen in thousands of years,” Cliston said.

“I know this is an odd time to bring it up, but how old are you, Cliston?” I asked.

“15,348 years old, sir,” Cliston said.

“Wow. That’s like…ten times as old as I am,” Ermie added, impressed.

The less than one-month-old Dredel Led had not yet mastered mathematics.

“Damn, Cliston. No wonder you’ve got so many pamphlets and books. You’re an antique,” I said.

“I just celebrated my animation date two weeks ago,” Cliston continued.

“Oh. Happy…turning-on day?” I said.

“So what about this Kai’Un robot?” Garm asked, annoyed at the interruption.

“I think what Cliston is saying is that maybe Thad’s Friend created it?” I asked.

“Nothing of the sort has ever been done before, but if anyone could do it, I suspect the Rettosian would be a likely candidate,” Cliston said.

“But why? You said he doesn’t hate Colmarians. Why would he hate the Dredel Led?” MTB asked.

“Maybe he hates them. I don’t know. It’s not like we ever sat down for tea and crackers and had a talk,” I amended.

“Where is this Rettosian?” Garm asked.

“On Floloria. Hey, come to think of it, I met him in a room with a bunch of electronic devices. Maybe that was Kai’Un?” I asked.

“Kai’Un would have to be much larger than a room,” Cliston said.

“Oh, and we delivered him a cargo container full of electronic components that we stole from a transport here on Belvaille,” I said.

“You did what?” MTB asked.

“Nothing. It doesn’t matter,” I said quickly.

“It matters that you’ve been working for a crazy Rettosian this whole time. I told you those Ontakians were trouble,” Garm said.

“Cliston, how big would Kai’Un have to be?” I asked.

“Think of a million versions of me in one unit, sir,” Cliston answered.

“The construction! Delovoa and I had gone to Floloria because we detected signals coming from it, but they weren’t the same as the hack. When we landed, we found people were knocking down buildings using some advanced construction equipment. We weren’t sure if they were attacking us or what, but we got the hell out of there. Maybe the whole city, the entire space station—” I began.

“Is Kai’Un!” Cliston finished.

Just then, the Dredel Led we were following, slowly tilted forward, opened its giant scoop-like mouth, and took an enormous bite out of the metal street it was walking on.





CHAPTER 57




“What the hell is it doing?” MTB asked.

“It looks like it’s eating the street,” I said.

Indeed, the big, armored Dredel Led had now taken three bites out of the solid metal road. Our roads, and pretty much the whole space station, were steel. And not some cheap-o brand either. It was a hardened steel alloy, that never rusted and rarely needed repair.

And here this robot was, chowing down like it was eating rice crackers.

As we stood watching, the creature ceased chewing and took up a different pose. It lowered its two hind legs and the whole robot began shaking.

“Does it look like it’s about to…” Garm began.

“It’s taking a crap,” I said.

One, two, three hunks of metal fell out of its backside, lying on the street like…well, a pile of turds. They were about two feet in length apiece.

Doooot! A noise blasted from the rear of the Dredel Led and a cloud of brown smoke billowed out.

“Holy hell, it farted!” I exclaimed. “Did you see that? It farted! I told you robots could fart! Mr. Boshe said they couldn’t.”

“Calm down,” Garm said. “Was it simply hungry?”

The Dredel Led righted itself and began to walk again, avoiding the large potholes it had dug out with its mouth.

When it had moved a few feet ahead, the metal turds began to stir.

Each one of them unfolded, springing out arms and legs and heads and hands.

They looked like:

“They’re me,” Ermie said.

They were. They looked like three, somewhat larger, Emerald Crusaders.

The three robots examined their surroundings for a moment, having just been crapped into existence, and then they all ran off in different directions.

“Hey!” I yelled.

“That’s illegal,” Cliston stated.

“What is?” Garm asked.

“Dredel Led are prohibited from creating other Dredel Led. It is one of our most basic tenets. That Dredel Led is in violation of our laws.”

“Well, if we survive, I suggest you write a stern letter, Cliston,” I said. “In the meantime, what do we do about those little…poop robots?”

“We need to stop them. If it keeps squatting out Dredel Led, we could be overwhelmed. There’s an awful lot of road to eat,” Garm said.

“I object to attacking them unless they’ve done something wrong,” Cliston stated.

“You said they were breaking the law,” Garm challenged.

“Dredel Led law. With all due respect, this isn’t Dredel Led territory and you aren’t Dredel Led,” Cliston replied.

“Cliston, Garm, MTB, go after those little robots and see what they’re doing. Stay in tele contact. I’ll follow this thing,” I said.

“How about I follow the big, slow thing and you run after the little ones?” MTB said.

“The smaller robots are too fast for me to follow. Quit wasting time and get after them.”

“You stay with Hank, Ermie,” Cliston said.

“Okay!”

Everyone took off after the robots. They weren’t amazingly fast, their little legs were too small for that, but they had a decent head start.

I stood there with Ermie.

“Should we try and talk to it again?” Ermie asked.

“I don’t have a great track record speaking to Dredel Led. Most times they attack me,” I replied.

“Like me!” Ermie said good-naturedly.

After about fifteen minutes, the Dredel Led had moved maybe half a block. Then it paused and took another bite out of the road.

I got on the tele.

“Hey, it’s eating the street again. What should I do?” I called into my tele.

The only one to answer was Cliston. He could probably multitask better than Garm and MTB. After all, he had 15,000 years of practice.

“Hello, sir. You should instruct him that he is in violation of Dredel Led laws.”

“And how should I do that?” I asked.

“I can give you the proper nomenclature,” Cliston replied.

He started rattling off some legalese and I stopped him.

“I can’t remember all that, Cliston.”

“I’ll tell Ermie, he can memorize it, and then repeat it back to you as you’re speaking, sir.”

“Why don’t I have Ermie say it instead?”

“I think that perhaps your voice might carry more weight. If you understand me, sir.”

“Ermie, listen to this and remember it,” I said.

“Okay.”

I handed Ermie the tele and Cliston told him what to say. When he was done, he handed me back the tele.

“What is the poop-bot doing, Cliston?” I asked.

“I object to that derogatory term, sir. It is merely a Dredel Led.”

“Sorry, Cliston.”

“It seems to be a scout. It is moving across the city, looking into doors and windows and vehicles. I’m not sure what it’s searching for.”

“Probably the telescopes,” I said.

“If that’s the case, it is going the wrong direction. We’re now seven blocks away from you.”

“Alright, I’m going to try and talk to this thing.”

“Good luck, sir.”

I took a deep breath, shook out my arms and legs to warm up, and walked over in front of the enormous Dredel Led, whose feet were twice the size of me.

“Come on, Ermie,” I said.

“Coming.”

“Ahum,” I started, clearing my voice. “Dredel Led! I have to inform you that you are in violation of the laws of Thaxmultaerea.”

I turned to Ermie.

“What are the next lines?” I asked.

Ermie told me.

“I just said that. What are the ones after?”

As he told me, I got the sense I was playing a childhood game of tele. Where you have a string of people whisper the same phrase to each other and it gets garbled as more and more people translate it. I don’t think Ermie had the best memory processing unit in the galaxy.

“You need to cease and delist your parent occupations. The grasping words of the silver monitor make your actions regal. If you do not stop in your mother father brother, you will be reformed to the barren middle school,” I said.

The Dredel Led paused. It was probably as confused as I was.

The big robot leaned back a bit and I wondered if I had succeeded. Then it thrust out its left leg and slammed it on top of the Emerald Crusader, who disappeared from sight.

“Ermie!” I shouted.

But I didn’t have much time to react beyond that, as the Dredel Led kicked me with its right front leg.

I woke up some time later from where I had cratered into a building. I saw the Dredel Led had moved another half-block and had just pooped out two more robots.

Presumably, I had been unconscious for a bit.

I was wedged into a building. My butt and back were squashed into the metal of the building’s wall. My face was bleeding and my chest was killing me.

I had to wiggle for a bit, but I managed to extricate myself from the building.

I hobbled over to where I saw Ermie get stepped on. A flattened Emerald Crusader was clearly seen in outline. He almost looked like a drawing, he was smashed completely two dimensional.

I can’t say I knew Ermie well, he hadn’t been alive that long, but he was a good guy as far as robots went. The best elevator attendant I ever met. Very courteous—to non-Colmarians. And he had a childish, infectious enthusiasm.

I pulled out Gun and pointed it at the backside of the Dredel Led.

“Gun, can you see that thing?” I asked.

“Hello. What thing?”

“That non-floor, non-wall, non-door, big, moving, metal thing.”

I stood there, my arm outstretched as Gun thought.

“What’s metal?” he finally asked.

I put my arm down and exhaled. I had a huge urge to throw Gun at the Dredel Led, but I knew that would be a useless gesture.

“Gun! You can see movement, right? Things that are…I don’t know, moving.”

“I think so. Not floors, right?”

“No, not floors.”

I held out Gun again.

“You see…the only thing that is moving. It’s big. It’s…it’s…not a person.”

“Is it alive?” Gun asked.

“I… Why does that matter?”

“I don’t know. I’m wondering what it means to be alive. Am I alive?”

“I can’t do this right now, Gun. I need you to concentrate. Can you shoot that moving thing?”

“I believe so.”

“Will it hurt it?”

“I don’t know what it is. I can’t tell if it will hurt it. Or it can be hurt. Or if it’s alive. Or if you’re alive.”

“Forget it. Can you shoot at full power straight ahead? Wait!” I said.

I realized that if he shot at full power it might drain every ounce of my bioelectricity and kill me. Simple linguistic mistakes like that could be fatal with Gun.

“Let me correct that. Can you shoot straight ahead at 85% power?” I said, aiming carefully at the Dredel Led.

“I don’t know. What’s an eighty-five? And a percent?” Gun asked.

I was growing terribly frustrated, but I realized there probably wasn’t a big need for an intelligent gun to know about numbers and percentages. It would just be useless information.

“Gun, how do you know how powerful to shoot? Like, how much electricity do you use?”

“I shoot how I need to shoot.”

“Okay. I think. Can you shoot that moving thing so it is damaged, but not really, really damaged?”

Gun was quiet a long while.

“Well?” I asked.

“I believe I understand what you mean,” Gun said. “Bang!”

I fell to my knees with a thud and flopped over on my back. I couldn’t move my limbs or speak or do anything. But at least I wasn’t unconscious.

I saw one of the armor panels of the Dredel Led had bent and cracked, which made moving its left rear leg difficult. It stopped walking and turned its head back.

“Gluh,” I managed to say from my prostrate and entirely helpless position.





CHAPTER 58




“Sir, are you okay?” I heard Cliston say.

After shooting Gun, I was too tired to turn my head, so Cliston obliged by walking into my field of view. He was holding one of the small robots he had pursued earlier. It was struggling vigorously.

Cliston tried to get me to my feet, but he couldn’t manage and hold onto the robot at the same time. He stopped helping me and, to my great shock, he twisted the head off the small robot! He then dropped the remains to the ground and dragged me up.

“Cliston?” I asked. I wasn’t sure what to think. Here he had been touting the rights and liberties of Dredel Led and he just murdered one.

“That wasn’t a Dredel Led. It was a mindless automaton,” he said.

“A what?”

“It was simply a machine. A drone,” he stated angrily.

Cliston never got angry.

“So what’s that mean?” I asked. Wondering if he might snap off my head next.

“I told you it was against our laws to create Dredel Led. We can only be created by the consensus of Thaxmultaerea. It is wholly against our philosophy to create drones. We strive to show the galaxy that Dredel Led are beings of substance and individuality. To stamp out brainless robots is an affront to all we stand for.”

“So that huge robot is a lawbreaker and a heretic?” I asked.

“Something like that. Did you shoot it, sir?”

“Yeah. You see in the hindquarters there. Almost knocked me unconscious. Stupid Gun.”

“Why did you shoot it? You didn’t know it was creating drones until just now. Where is the Emerald Crusader?” he asked.

“He got smashed. He’s gone. And that bastard kicked me into a wall. That’s why I shot it.”

The large Dredel Led, unable to walk properly, bent over again and took two bites out of the street.

“You need to destroy it before it creates more drones,” Cliston urged.

“I can barely stand up. How am I going to destroy it? I don’t have enough electricity to shoot Gun again and I don’t want to get near that thing.”

“Did you explain to it that its actions were in violation of Dredel Led laws?”

“More or less.”

“I’m going to tele MTB and Garm and tell them they can destroy the drones they’re following. Please think of a way to disable that Dredel Led.”

Cliston let go of me to use his tele and I promptly slid to the ground.

Every time I get injured, I get hungry. I could really go for some Club sausages. Drench them in syrup. Have some crispy toast to use as a sponge. Maybe even get someone to pre-chew it all for me, so I could just slurp it up with a straw.

Yeah.

I heard Cliston talking on the tele.

“I don’t see why you attacked it without knowing it was a drone.”

He must have been speaking to Garm. She didn’t care one way or the other if a robot had a brain, two brains, or none. If she viewed it as a threat, she would act accordingly.

The giant Dredel Led squatted and began to shake again. Great, it was going to poop out more drones.

But instead, a large, flat piece of metal came out.

It reached back with one of its hind legs and some fingers jutted out from its foot. It grabbed hold of the metal and its leg swiveled and stretched and lifted the piece up.

Then the busted plate of armor I shot, popped off the Dredel Led and fell to the ground with a clang. The Dredel Led then snapped on the newly formed piece and righted itself.

Even Cliston seemed amazed.

The Dredel Led had just repaired its damaged body by eating some roadwork. How the hell could I dream of fighting this thing?

MTB called me on the tele.

“What’s up, MTB? You know you can shoot the robot you’re chasing?”

“Yeah, Cliston said. The security forces by the telescope took care of it for me. This thing made a straight line to one of the buildings and started raising hell inside. It’s safe to say the Navy knows something is going on down here.”

“That’s just great. This thing might crap out some more robots. Why don’t you stay there and shoot anything that comes near the telescopes?”

“Sounds good. What do I tell the Navy?”

“Don’t tell them anything. You’re Police Overseer.”

“I am?”

“Yeah, didn’t I tell you? That’s what Wardian Boshe knows you as. You’re also the back-up coordinator when it comes to the Navy commandeering the ports in case of emergency.”

“Why are you telling me this now?”

“Because I just remembered.”

“Do these jobs have a salary attached to them?”

“I’m like five different Master Overseers and I don’t get paid. I don’t see how you would.”

MTB hung up.

“Sir, do you still have the daxapronal?” Cliston asked.

“Yeah. But I don’t want to fight that thing hand-to-hand. Its hands are huge.”

“I was thinking, does the drug give you more energy?”

“Sure. I go crazy, remember?”

“No, I mean you might be able to fire Gun multiple times.”

I thought about that. Did the drug literally give me more bioelectricity or did it just make me feel that way? It could be risky being half-crazy and shooting off a half-intelligent Gun.

“I’m not sure that’s a good idea, Cliston. Besides, the robot will just rebuild itself.”

“Do you have any other methods of stopping it, sir?”

“I do not,” I said plainly.

I reached into my pocket for my baggie of drugs.

“Cliston, this stuff makes me insane. In a few instances, I’ve gone screaming down the street and attacked police cars. You need to keep me calm and focused or this won’t work.”

“I will do my best, sir.”

I stared at the drugs a moment.

“You know, Thad’s Friend, the Rettosian scientist, probably manufactured this drug.”

“Sir?”

“Nothing. I was just thinking how circular things can be.”

I pulled four tabs of paper out of the bag and put them in my mouth. This was an overdose, but I didn’t think I had time to dial in the perfect administration of daxapronal.

It didn’t take long for me to get to my feet and begin hyperventilating.

I was so angry. At everything. Anything I looked at made me furious. I hated the roads. The buildings. The way the buildings connected to the roads. I wanted to destroy it all!

Before I could bodily throw myself at my surroundings, I heard a clear, baritone voice.

Singing.

It was Cliston!



The lights, shining on Belvaille,

They make me feel so well.

When I'm down and gloomy,

This town she tries to soothe me.

City Hall with its spire,

Fills me with desire.

It's that pulse, that beat, that rhythm of the street.

That lifts you around, till the latticework goes down.

Belvaille's in my heart. Belvaille is a song.

Belvaille is the dream, that makes us get along.



Here I was, so high I was about to pop out my own eyeballs using my toes, and all the anger suddenly vanished.

That little song had drawn a picture. I could see the city. Belvaille. See it with greater clarity than I ever had before. See it, touch it, smell it, taste it. It was all-encompassing.

Right when I was about to be overwhelmed with sensation, I felt a firm grip on my arm.

“Sir. You need to shoot the Dredel Led with Gun,” Cliston said.

“I need to shoot the Dredel Led with Gun,” I repeated.

“Yes, sir. Pick up Gun. It’s right there.”

“Pick up Gun,” I said, and I reached down and took hold of the pistol. I looked back to Cliston to see what the next step was.

“Aim it at the Dredel Led.”

I pointed Gun.

“Instruct the weapon to fire now, sir.”

“Gun. Kill that damn thing! Kill it! Kill it! Kill it!”

“Alrighty,” Gun said. “Bang!”

Next thing I knew, Cliston was looming over me. I must have passed out.

“How long was I unconscious?” I asked.

“About four seconds, sir.”

“Oh. Were you singing, Cliston?”

“Yes, sir.”

“I’m really mad. But I’m also really tired. I’m mad that I’m tired. Help me up, Cliston.”

Cliston raised me to my feet and I could see that I hit the Dredel Led and it was in the process of eating the road again.

“It’s rebuilding itself,” I said.

“Can you shoot it again, sir?”

“I don’t think I have enough juice.” I rolled my head around on my neck and flexed my shoulders. “I’m getting my energy back, but even on this drug it’s not instantaneous. I might need you to sing at me again if I lose control.”

“I haven’t finished the lyrics, I’m afraid.”

“That’s okay. It was a nice song, Cliston. Did you write it?”

“Yes, sir.”

“When do you write songs?”

“I composed that one just now, sir.”

That made me angry. That Cliston could multitask writing a song while preparing to fight a monstrous robot, and I could barely tie my shoes and hum at the same time.

I felt the rage growing. And believed I might be able to hazard another shot without killing myself.

“Gun, shoot that thing again.”

“Bang!” Gun said.

The blast completely shot off a right rear piece of armor. The Dredel Led immediately took three more bites out of the metal street.

I was momentarily stunned with fatigue, but I didn’t fall down. Cliston was right about the drug.

Garm suddenly came running up. She had a pistol in each hand.

“What’s going on?” she asked.

“Ermie is dead and that thing is a criminal,” I replied.

“What?”

The Dredel Led hunched over and four metal logs plopped out the back, along with a cloud of brown gas.

It made me furious that the robot was farting at me and my efforts to destroy it.

As the Dredel Led continued to eat the road, four little robots sprung up from the pile it had excreted and began running straight toward me.

“Yes! Come on, you sons of bastards! This is for Ermie,” I yelled.

The robots swarmed and I immediately fell on my back.

“Help!”

I struggled to get the robots off, but they were too quick and weren’t interested in a fair fight.

“Sir, they are a distraction while the Dredel Led replaces its damaged components,” Cliston said.

“Well, they’re working!” I said. I couldn’t stand up and couldn’t dream of shooting at the robot again. Every time I tried to rise, the robots pushed me over.

Blam! Blam!

Garm shot one. She did some kind of showoff, handstand, twirly-kick thing and another robot went flying.

With my hands free, I was able to grab a robot and squeeze it to death.

Cliston took hold of the last one and twisted off its head.

But the Dredel Led had finished its repairs and was back to walking.

“Cliston, how should we fight this thing?” Garm asked.

“Hey, whoa. I’m the resident expert at fighting monsters and robots. Not him,” I complained.

“I can tell you’re high on that weird drug. Cliston was our glocken General Manager and he knows more about Dredel Led than either of us.”

“Give me your keys,” I said, suddenly flushed with a brilliant idea.

“Why? You want to steal my clothes? None of my dresses will fit you.”

“Hah, hah. No, the keys to your car.”

She threw them at me and I failed to catch them.

“That really inspires confidence,” she added.

“Watch this,” I proclaimed.

I got up and ran back to her car.

When Cliston and I had fought that robot with the spinning blades in the government building, I had protected myself by hiding inside a metal cylinder.

I had a car! A big, metal car. It gave me speed and all the protection I could want.

I got into the vehicle and started it up. Already I felt impervious.

The Dredel Led itself was too big to ram, but I could shoot at it out the window. And as it farted out more drones, I would just hit-and-run them.

I felt so foolish for not coming up with this plan earlier. Use my brain for once instead of punching my way out of every problem. Ironic I had to get hopped up on psycho pills before I started thinking straight.

I drove the car from the side street and joined the road the Dredel Led was slowly moving down.

Garm and Cliston were cheering at me on the sidewalk. They probably realized what I was planning to do.

I didn’t even see what I ran into.

The car came to an abrupt stop and I flew through the windshield. I skidded along the street like a fleshy bowling ball and finally ended up about thirty feet behind the Dredel Led.

It all happened so fast and I was so high on daxapronal, that I was still trying to steer the car for a few seconds as I sat on the pavement.

Alright. Alright. So that didn’t work.

The Dredel Led began to squat again and I jumped to my feet, wobbled a bit, and ran forward.

I was going to crawl up this thing. It couldn’t be armored both outside and inside.

I think Garm and Cliston were cheering at me again as I fought my way past the dropping robot turds and the gaseous exhaust.

Everything went black.

As my knees were pushed up to my chest and my hands were pressed to my face, I suddenly felt this wasn’t a very good plan.

I had just climbed inside a Dredel Led’s butt.

Unasked, I might add.

This damn drug. What was I thinking?

I felt my confines twisting and bouncing and growing tighter. I got the sense the robot was walking, probably cockeyed since it had a mutant Ontakian shoved up its rear end.

But the idea of ripping it apart from the inside was a bit far-fetched. There were tons and tons of metal pressing against me from all sides. I couldn’t even wiggle my toes.

I didn’t have Gun. I had left it in the car. Or on the ground.

I could feel plenty of fresh air. But it was so tight that I couldn’t take more than little hiccup breaths.

I was going to die in the colon of a giant, a proctologist’s nightmare.

There was a terrible grinding noise and vibration. The Dredel Led was eating the road again. I wasn’t sure if I was going to get digested or what.

A tremendous blast of heat hit me and then my prison suddenly expanded dramatically. I almost fell out of the robot’s butt, except I held on for some reason.

He was trying to poop me out, along with several new robots which were sitting to my left.

I turned myself sideways and braced my legs and back. I was wedged solid.

I could see the street to my right and all I had to do was let go and I would be free.

“Hank? What are you doing?” I heard Garm say.

Garm and Cliston were standing behind the robot watching me.

“Nothing,” I said, straining. Trying to be as nonchalant as possible while stuck in a Dredel Led’s rectum.

The drones the Dredel Led was trying to expel were stuck. Because I wasn’t moving, they couldn’t drop out. I was a living, breathing constipation.

Garm fired several times past me, but the bullets ricocheted harmlessly.

“Watch it,” I said.

“Sir, what are you attempting to accomplish?” Cliston asked.

“I’m not really sure at this point, Cliston.”

“Would you like me to recover your gun for you?” he asked.

“Yes!”

Cliston walked away while I tried to ignore my aching body.

“Is that comfortable?” Garm asked.

“Super comfy. Yeah. I’m thinking of living here. This robot is flexing its sphincter and my legs are going to snap in a second. Do you have any bombs or grenades or anything?”

“No,” she said.

“So what was your plan on fighting this? Have me kill it?” I demanded.

“Pretty much. You know, this is the first time I’ve spoken to someone who was literally up the ass of another creature.”

“You kidding? I do this all the time. Ow, that was my knee!” I said, feeling a joint pop.

To add insult, a horrid brown gas wafted past me with a hiss.

Cliston returned a few moments later holding Gun.

“I’m going to count to five and throw it to you, sir.”

“Count to one!”

He threw Gun, but I didn’t catch it. It slid out and fell back on the ground.

Cliston threw it two more times and I caught it on the third try.

“Eat suck, suckface!” I yelled, and I pointed the gun to my left, which was up the digestive tract.

“Oh, yeah,” I mumbled. “Gun, can you hear me?”

“Yes. Hello.”

“Hi! Um, I need you to shoot at full power straight ahead. Right now.”

“Sure. Bang!”

The walls of the Dredel Led closed on me.





CHAPTER 59




I was lying down in my bathtub, recovering from the thirty-minute ordeal of being dragged out of the Dredel Led.

The bath was filled with salts, spritzes, effervescent, aloes, acids, and probably everything except axle grease. My muscles couldn’t decide if they should spasm, tingle, or be numb.

Cliston stirred the bath and added ingredients he deemed appropriate.

“You shot the Dredel Led’s head off. So it can’t eat anymore and it seems to be walking randomly,” Garm said, leaning against the bathroom wall.

“It’s still walking?” I asked.

“Yup. The Navy has it surrounded, but they haven’t destroyed it. I think they’re using it to film a propaganda video. You know, to show that the war with the Dredel Led is necessary. Frankly, I don’t think they have any weapons big enough to hurt the robot.”

“Tell them to shoot it with that big tacky gun that creamed my house,” I said.

“Tachyon. That’s one of the main weapons on Wardian Boshe’s Armage. It’s meant to shoot planetary installations. Your house was probably the smallest target it could hit. As big as that Dredel Led is, it’s not that big—and it’s moving. Besides, at this point it’s somewhat near the telescopes, so I don’t think they’ll risk it.”

“Sorry for wrecking your car,” I said.

“No, it’s my fault. I know you can’t drive at the best of times and you were high on that Ontakian drug. Though I’m not sure how you managed to run into a twenty-foot tall support beam,” Garm said.

“Sucks about Ermie,” I added.

“He died for a noble cause, sir.”

“What cause was that, Cliston?”

“Protecting this city from a Dredel Led that should never have been created,” he said.

“Those drones, as you called them, looked a lot like Ermie. Do you think the Emerald Crusader was a prototype?” I asked.

“I’m not certain. Thaxmultaerea has been behaving erratically since the start of hostilities,” he said.

“What do you think we should do about the hacking going on at the broken telescope?” Garm asked. “The Dredel Led might send more attackers.”

“The first building that Cliston and I went to was a PCC facility. Even if the generator I stole was the same one I took from that military base, how did it get back to the Navy? Why were there Navy guards there? The Ontakians hate the PCC. I can’t believe they were working together.”

“I don’t know. Maybe they were Ontakians wearing Navy uniforms as a disguise?” Garm suggested.

“That doesn’t make sense. Marching around in the streets brings all kinds of unnecessary attention. If they wanted to make it hidden, they would stay inside.”

“I control the port and the telescopes. We aren’t technically supposed to have a military presence anywhere else. We aren’t authorized.”

“How would you get authorization?” I asked.

“Like anything else: request it. Submit a thousand pieces of paperwork. And then wait.”

“Could one of the ship commanders have troops down here?”

“If they had authorization, sure. They wouldn’t have to clear it with me either, because it’s not the port or the telescopes,” she said.

“Well, that sucks. There’s a million ships and ship commanders out there,” I said.

“Perhaps the Navy didn’t know they were guarding a building that was hacking my people,” Cliston offered.

“That sounds right. The telescope that is currently hacking wasn’t known to us,” Garm said.

“Not known to you, but what about the rest of the Navy?” I asked.

“It’s far-fetched to think there are a whole bunch of Navy factions working against each other,” Garm said.

“The more I think about it, the more I believe the Ontakians didn’t know about the hack at all. They have nothing to gain from it. They do odd jobs for Thad’s Friend. I believe he’s the one behind all this,” I said.

“I can’t see a Rettosian scientist on Floloria having any ability to coerce the Navy to guard a building here,” Garm said.

“I can’t either,” I replied. “But we already guessed that Floloria might not be a space station at all. It might really be the million-mind Dredel Led, Kai’Un.”

“But sir, what would Thad’s Friend get out of creating Kai’Un? That isn’t clear to me.”

“None of this is clear to me, Cliston.”

“If the Navy really had a hand in any of this, I can try and find out,” Garm said.

“How would you do that?” I asked.

“You said there were troops guarding a building. The soldiers have to eat. They have to sleep somewhere. They need guns, water, blankets, boots, and a regular paycheck. All of that creates paperwork. I just have to find proof of it.”

“How long do you estimate for that?” Cliston asked.

“Somewhere between now and before I die. This System creates an awful lot of forms, you can imagine.”

“I think I’ll run that mission with the Society of the Free and Easy,” I said.

“To assassinate the Member of Parliament? I thought we agreed you weren’t going to do that, sir,” Cliston said, surprised.

“What? Assassinate Parliament? Are you nuts?” Garm asked.

“A ship carrying a politician is coming here. Thad’s Friend wants us to kill him.”

“Why?” she replied.

“I don’t know. I’m hoping if I do this, I can find out more about what Thad’s Friend is doing.”

“You’re going to murder a Parliamentarian?” she asked.

“No, I’m going to double-cross the Ontakians. I’ll need Frank’s help.”

“Betray the Ontakians, sir?”

“They’re zealots, Cliston. You can’t reason with people like that. You can’t negotiate with them. If you gave them a billion credits, they still wouldn’t budge.”

“Whereas you’ll cut out your own tongue for a hundred credits,” Garm said.

“More than a hundred. But it would grow back, anyway.”

“What about your girlfriend?” Garm asked.

“You know me, I think I’m doomed to be single.”





CHAPTER 60




“What do you want?” Frank said at his door.

“Hi, Uncle!” I answered with mock cheerfulness.

He opened the door but didn’t invite me in. I entered after him. This was the first time I had come to Frank’s home on Belvaille.

It was wall-to-wall with stolen junk. I assumed it was all stolen. People with stolen tele screens and clothes and power tools tend to stack and arrange them a certain way.

“Are you a fence or a thief?” I asked, at the array of junk.

“Man’s got to make a living,” he said, not answering my question.

He was drinking beer and didn’t have on his usual breathing apparatus.

“Aren’t you worried about poison air?” I asked.

“Got more on my mind. Besides, I can’t drink with it on.”

I had never met anyone who drank as much alcohol, as fast as my uncle. It was like he was permanently in a beer-drinking contest where his life depended on the results.

“Why are you here, Junior?”

“Junior?” I asked. “I’m like twice as big as you.”

“And six times heavier, you always leave that part out.”

“I need you to not help the Ontakians attack that politician,” I said.

“Oh, that. I wasn’t going to do it anyway.”

“How were you going to get out of it? Just tell them you weren’t interested?”

“They’re a bit harder to convince than that. I was going to say I had diarrhea. If they came over to check, I have a gallon of Creamy Koona milk I was going to drink.”

“Does that give us Ontakians diarrhea?” I asked.

“No, it gives me diarrhea. It’ll probably just make you fatter.”

“Why weren’t you going to help the Society? I thought you were in good with them.”

“I’m in with them when it’s a paying job. I don’t work for free. But they’re getting weirder than usual. Attacking Parliament? That’s suicide.”

“You think they’ll fail?” I asked.

“No, I think they’ll succeed. It’s the PCC after all. But you can’t knock off their top politicians and expect them to leave you alone. That’s what, a quadrillion or so cops chasing you for the rest of your life? No, thanks.”

“Do you really hate the PCC like they do?”

“Kid, I honestly don’t give a crap. As long as I can do what I want to do, who cares what bubbleheads are in charge?”

“I gave this a lot of thought last night. I believe I honestly like the PCC. It’s vapid and terrible and it surrounds you with a protective cocoon of imbecility.”

Frank laughed and drank another beer in two seconds, crushing the can to get the liquid out faster.

“You know the PCC won’t harm you,” I continued. “It wants nothing more than to be confusing and ineffective. It lets you be your own person as it limps along. Because the government can’t solve anything, and it can’t really break anything, you’re given almost absolute freedom. Belvaille is still here and it’s still full of criminals. Yeah, we have to jump through some hoops, but it’s not difficult.”

Frank finished two more beers as I talked.

“I said for years that I despised the PCC. I was sick of the endless laws and rules. But the point is—”

“You can’t possibly follow them all,” Frank finished.

“Exactly. There’s too many. They’re contradictory. So in a way you get to pick and choose which rules you want to obey,” I said.

Frank put his breathing mask on.

“The way I think of the PCC,” Frank started, “is that they got all these rules to cover their ass. If something bad happens, they can point and go, ‘see, they were breaking the law.’ But unless you’re really in someone’s face causing problems, no one is going to bother you. It’s a big joke in a way.”

“We seem to view it kind of the same. So you’ll help me rescue the politician?”

“Oh, no. I didn’t say anything about that,” Frank replied. “I said I’ll sit on the can and pretend I got the runs. That’s a big difference from fighting the Society of the Free and Easy with just the two of us.”

“Only Najosa is a combat model. But I’m hoping we won’t have to fight them,” I said.

“They have a lot of very powerful hardware.”

“You mean like that plasma warhead we recovered on the ship we boarded?”

“Their plasma weapons won’t do much to Ontakians. But they got a whole lot of machine guns, mortars, and everything else. And like I said, I don’t work for free. How much are you paying?”

“I guess I’m already in debt. I can borrow more money. Then maybe Ulteem will hire you to break my kneecaps for not paying him back.”

“The Society is not a group I want mad at me,” Frank said.

“Let me figure out how to smooth things over with them. Maybe I can offer them some free bullets as a make-up gift. What else do Ontakians like?”

“You could break up with Najosa. That would be a present.”

“I think stopping them from killing the politician will be my way of breaking up with her. It’s easier than a direct confrontation about it. Though I hate being passive aggressive.”

“Only an Ontakian would consider a gun battle passive aggressive,” Frank said.

“Let’s hope it doesn’t come to that.”

“It’s too bad. I bet Najosa was great in bed.”

I sighed.

“She was violent. It was stressful. Look, I’m not a great lover and I don’t pretend to be. But even I know that I shouldn’t have to check myself for broken bones immediately after sex.”





CHAPTER 61




I was enjoying some discounted sausages and beer, courtesy of The Club. Fample had stayed sort of true to his word, and decided to give me a price reduction on food and drink for fighting the Agglatar.

Half off. I wasn’t complaining.

“What are you doing here?” I asked, looking up from my food.

Najosa sat down at my table.

“We have to talk,” she whispered. “The Member of Parliament is here.”

“In The Club?” I scanned around but didn’t see anyone who fit the description of a PCC Parliamentarian. Though I doubt I would recognize one if I saw him.

“No, on Belvaille,” she said.

“How did you get in here? This club is for members only,” I said.

“That’s what the guy at the door told me. Until I broke his jaw.”

“What did the security guards say?” I asked.

“One didn’t say anything. One of them screamed a lot when he tried to touch me.”

“Najosa, you can’t…” I started to explain, but then I thought better of it. I was already going to double-cross her on this mission. No need to pester her about little details like who she should and shouldn’t beat up. “It’s only one politician?” I asked.

“Yeah, just one. Apparently, he’s important. We’re putting together a strike team and we need your help. Let’s get out of here, I don’t like talking with all these Colmarians around.”

The Club didn’t have to-go bags, but I picked up my remaining sausages and carried them, after downing half my beer.

Najosa scowled at me.

“You’re supposed to be on a diet,” she said.

I didn’t reply.

She wanted to plan the attack at my place, but I decided we should go to Frank’s.

From our last talk, I had a major concern that Frank wasn’t going to help me with the Ontakians. Being there in person made it harder for him to get out of it. And if he tried to pull the diarrhea gag, I would call up Cliston and get him over with some home remedies.

Frank’s apartment was small. Especially with all his stolen goods inside. It was a tight fit with the Society of the Free and Easy there.

“You know, Frank, like 90% of the city is unoccupied. Why did you have to pick the smallest apartment?” I asked.

“I like to have the walls close by,” he replied.

“Never heard that being a selling point of a home,” I said.

“Enough chitchat,” Najosa barked.

Nordan handed me a slip of paper.

“This is where we tracked the hated politician to. There are two guards outside, rotating on schedules. At least four more inside. They aren’t Navy guards. They are either private hires or Parliament staff,” he said.

The slip of paper didn’t even have an address. It was a black-and-white drawing of the block. But quite a detailed drawing. I could immediately place where it was.

“I know this building. It’s an old Nobleman’s home,” I said. “Who drew this, by the way?”

Shella, the architect, raised her hand.

“Good stuff,” I said.

“Since you know the building and area, we’re going to rely on you to formulate our attack vectors,” Najosa said.

“I don’t know what that means,” I started, but then I got an idea. “Oh, we’re going to have to split into groups.”

“Why?” Nordan asked, skeptical.

“Because…the hallways are really narrow. And winding. We won’t be able to make a good…what do you call it…shooting line. You know, we’ll be blasting each other in the back. Also, he could be in one of three areas,” I explained.

“So? We’ll neutralize the guards and search them all,” he replied.

“I know you guys think you’re hot stuff, but if we go storming into a Parliament Member’s home, the Navy is going to descend on us. Time is a factor.”

“We’ll take them out, too,” Nordan said dismissively.

The other Society members seemed to agree.

“This is a mission, right? The mission is to kill the Member of Parliament. Getting in a street fight with a hundred Navy guards armed with heavy weapons isn’t part of the mission,” I said.

We all turned to Najosa, who was deep in thought.

“Agreed,” she said finally.

“Okay, I’ll go with Frank,” I offered.

“No. We split up the combat models. You, me, Frank,” she said.

Ack.

“I go with my nephew or I don’t go at all,” Frank stated.

He had been silent the whole time. I thought it was pretty crafty of him to say that. Not because he wanted us to go together. He didn’t want to go at all. This was his way of trying to get out of the mission.

Najosa was fuming, and I thought she was going to cut him loose. Then I’d have to double-cross the Society all by my lonesome.

“Alright!” She barked. “Hank, can you get us detailed floorplans of the inside of that building?”

“No. How could I possibly do that?” I asked.

“You said he could be in one of three rooms,” she demanded.

“Yeah, but I can’t remember exactly where they are,” I lied. “I think one is the second floor, one is the ninth floor, and one is the twelfth floor.”

“It only has nine floors,” Nordan said.

“See? I can’t remember it perfectly.”

Good thing the Society didn’t know much about Colmarians. Or nobles. Or housing. Every rich person that ever existed, lived on the top floor of their mansion. Made it easier to look down on people. I knew that’s where all the master bedrooms were located in that building, and that’s likely where the politician would be.

I wanted to try and take a break. That way I could warn the politician to leave and maybe rendezvous with him later.

But Najosa had us all march over to the Society of the Free and Easy headquarters. Which was the bar I had originally met them at.

Upstairs, they had a suite of rooms they stayed in, and a considerable armory.

“Boy, I never get tired of standing next to this,” I said, patting the plasma warhead delicately.

The Massive Enhanced Plasma Ordnance rested in the middle of the armory, where anyone could, and would, bump into it while they were outfitting themselves.

“Everyone suit up. Light armor. I want this a quick operation,” Najosa said, then she pulled me aside. “What’s wrong with you?” she asked. “You’re acting really weird.”

“Me? I’m always weird. I pick my nose and paint my toenails. Sometimes I pick my nose with my toenails,” I said.

“Are you sure you’re okay with this assignment? You expressed some reservations before,” she tried to confirm.

“Nah, let’s do it. I want to assassinate a Parliament guy. What’s his name, anyway?”

“What does it matter?” she asked.

“How will we know it’s him?”

“It’s not as if he’ll tell us his name when we’re attacking,” she said.

“If I know big shots, he probably will.”





CHAPTER 62




The Society of the Free and Easy was certainly well armed.

It seemed every member was carrying approximately 500 weapons apiece. They had machine guns, rifles, shotguns, pistols, knives, whips, grenades, nets, clubs, landmines, and I think I saw a few slingshots.

I don’t know how well that politician was protected, but unless he had the actual God of Ass-Kicking guarding him, he was probably in for a lot of trouble. Frank looked decidedly uneasy with the prospect of betraying this group.

I personally didn’t bother with armor, which would only slow me down, or any weapons other than Gun.

The Ontakians only had one car and it was all mangled and cramped from hauling the plasma warhead some months ago.

Our gun-toting strike force could only fit about three people in their car.

“I can drive my car,” I volunteered.

“No, you’ll jeopardize the mission,” Najosa said. “You’re a horrible driver.”

“We going to walk across the city, murder a Member of Parliament, and then walk away?” I asked.

It took a little while, but we managed to hire two taxis to shuttle us to our assassination.

“We’re going to a costume competition,” I tried to explain to the driver.

“I didn’t say nothing,” the driver replied worriedly, seeing our arsenal of weapons.

The good part was we were riding in style, because the taxis were limousines. Since so many people left behind their cars when they abandoned Belvaille, there wasn’t a huge need for taxi services. The handful that remained were either heavy trucks for hauling items or limos.

We were just seven Ontakians, covered in body armor and loaded with weapons, driving along in limousines.

Totally inconspicuous.

It was close to midnight when we finally pulled right up to the front door of the building we were about to attack.

Everything was telling me to abandon this ridiculous mission and Frank was also making it clear he wanted no part of it.

But I felt I had a semi-moral obligation to protect the politician of the empire I wasn’t a part of from the maybe-diabolical plans of the Rettosian scientist.

What was I doing here? I asked myself for the tenth time.

“Go! Go! Go!” Najosa called out.

I’d like to say we poured out of the limos like trained Ontakian combatants. But people were tripping over their guns, or forgot to take off their seat belts, or otherwise got tangled and held up.

When we finally collected ourselves on the sidewalk, I was the first to speak.

“I think we should just ring the doorbell at this point,” I said.

“Shh,” Najosa hissed.

We headed to the building.

The mansion was one of the smaller, but more modern structures the nobles had created back when Belvaille was thriving.

The building was various shades of blue and seemingly composed of nothing but long columns and cylinders. The blue coloring gave the building a wild, optical-illusion feel that showed up a lot more in the daylight.

But we weren’t here to admire the architecture.

The front door was our first obstacle.

“You’re kidding. Out of all this hardware no one has a lock pick?” I asked.

“I can pick it, but this place has a security system too,” Frank said.

“Move,” I said.

I looked under the welcome mat, in the fake, potted plant, and on top of the door frame, but there was no keycard.

“Okay, I’m out of ideas,” I stated.

“Kick in the door,” Najosa commanded.

“Back up,” I said, clearing a path.

I got a big running start and I plowed into and through the front door, slid about halfway down the adjoining hallway, knocked over two tables, and came to a messy stop inside a closet.

These floors sure were buffed and polished.

“I told you to kick in the door,” Najosa said, when she had entered after me.

“I’m not a kicking kind of guy,” I replied.

“He isn’t,” Frank confirmed. “He can’t even raise his leg that high. He’s in terrible shape.”

“Thanks, Frank,” I said, getting to my feet.

“Anyone that’s here probably heard that commotion and is calling for help. We need to split up and execute the assignment. Form into your groups and get going,” Najosa said. But then she quickly pointed and shouted, “Target!”

A half-dozen guns opened fire.

I didn’t even see what they were shooting at because I had been facing the other direction.

After a moment, they were done firing and I saw him.

It was just one guy standing there.

He was about seven feet tall. Muscular. And he wore robes that, besides the copious amount of bullet holes, were covered in books and symbols and papers. He was also wrapped in thick, loose chains.

The fact that he was totally unfazed by the gunfire wasn’t the most amazing thing. It was that he was completely wreathed in an eerie, flickering, blue flame.

And then I felt it: fear.

Irrational. Unreasonable. Overpowering. Fear.

“It can’t be,” I stammered.

Najosa threw down her submachine gun and drew a pistol from her thigh. She flicked on the power and a high-pitched scream emanated from the weapon. It was like a million fingernails dragging across a million chalkboards.

Najosa fired and a blinding flash of orange light shot out. The entire front lobby of the mansion was now gone.

But the man was still standing there, oblivious.

“The plasma didn’t hurt him. He’s an Ontakian!” Frank said, and even his voice betrayed the fear he felt.

“No,” I began.

“Would you please give me a donation?” the man said stupidly.

“He’s an Agglatar,” I finished.

The Agglatar’s fists glowed with two energy balls. He threw them one after the other.

Kercrash!

I blinked myself back to consciousness as Frank helped me to my feet.

Where was I?

Then Frank started shaking me.

“What the hell is that thing?” he yelled.

“What thing?” I asked. I tasted blood.

“The scary guy with the books!”

I heard two more explosions but they seemed distant. Had I gotten blown into another mansion? Had Frank carried me to safety?

“Oh. He’s an Agglatar,” I said.

“What’s that?”

“He’s like…I don’t know. The Boranjame told me about him. I killed him once. But I don’t think he can die.”

“What is it with you fighting immortals?” Frank yelled, and he let go of me so that I fell to the floor. My knees were weak. “First it was Thad Elon and now this guy. Screw it. I’m out of here.”

Frank started to storm off and I noticed that he was bleeding. Everywhere. The rear and right side of his armor were completely destroyed and he was covered with burnt, bleeding flesh.

“Frank, you have to help me with…the Society,” I whispered.

He turned back and almost hit me.

“They’re dead!”

“What?”

“Well, probably they are. They’re fighting your demigod. And they’re welcome to it.”

“Frank, I need you,” I implored.

“You haven’t paid me! I told you I don’t work for free. I’m going to a hospital. I suggest you do the same.”

And he left.

He just walked away.

I couldn’t believe it.

I know I joked around a lot about my sleazy uncle, but here he was ditching me. Right when I needed him most. If he was anyone else, I would have shot him in the back.

I pulled out Gun to see if he was ready to fight an Agglatar.

“Gun, you there?”

“I don’t know. Am I?”

I dropped Gun and examined myself for the first time. I was bleeding. Both my legs. That’s why I had fallen.

I wasn’t sure how bad they were. I tried to stand up and I felt an extreme tightness and pain, but no broken bones.

Another explosion erupted.

Yeah, I was still in the mansion. But I wasn’t in the same hallway. Frank indeed must have pulled me to safety. Pulled himself, too, of course. But he could have left me there.

I guess I’m glad I didn’t shoot him.

I was tired. I was beat. I didn’t feel I could safely shoot Gun. If I passed out in front of the Agglatar he might easily kill me.

And that would suck.

I needed to help the Society of the Free and Easy. Help them get a shorter name. But also help them fight that…whatever it was.

As I hobbled back toward the explosions, I couldn’t help thinking how bad I was at double-crossing people.





CHAPTER 63




I made my way to the front of the mansion.

The floor was littered with shell casings from every kind of gun imaginable. As well as pockmarked with small craters from explosions. The walls were completely blown apart. It’s amazing the upper floors hadn’t collapsed.

I saw what was left of the Society of the Free and Easy. They had tried to make a stand. Tried and failed.

“Hank,” I heard a weak voice call out.

I ran over to her.

“Najosa!”

She was lying in a pool of blood and her armor and weapons were all but melted and gone.

“Shoot…” she tried to say.

“Don’t talk. I’ll get you to a doctor,” I said.

“No! No Colmarians,” she replied.

“Now? You’re going to take a stand against Colmarians now? I’m not going to lie, you’re in bad shape, Najosa.”

“No Colmarians!” She coughed, and blood splattered across my face.

“O-okay. But you know there’s not a big medical community on Belvaille. I don’t think we have any Qwintine or Gandrine doctors.”

“Listen,” she said, gripping my chest tightly. “Shoot…the light.”

“I…uh…alright. I’ll shoot the light. I promise,” I said, patting her arms gently. I assumed she was talking gibberish.

“No. That man. He throws…light. Burns. Explode. Shoot it.”

“Oh! The Agglatar. Shoot the energy balls in his hands?” I asked.

“Yes,” she said, and her body relaxed noticeably.

“Hey, uh, Najosa. There’s something I’ve been meaning to tell you,” I began.

Her eyes were bloody. She had two cracked teeth. A patch of her hair was smoldering. She tried to focus her attention on me as I spoke.

“You know, never mind. This isn’t the time,” I said.

She was shivering now but attempting to say something.

“Fuh…” she mouthed.

“What?” I asked, putting my ear closer.

“Fuh…” she tried again.

She was fading fast.

“Fat,” Najosa said finally.

Then she exhaled and was gone.

Did she just call me fat with her dying breath?

Najosa and I hadn’t seen things the same. Remotely the same. And, yes, I was going to break up with her and even double-cross her. But I didn’t want her dead.

She was a strong person. She certainly stood up for what she believed in and was willing to sacrifice for her ideals. Not many people could say that.

I straightened my pants and took out Gun.

“Gun!”

“Hi.”

“Can you shoot at blobs of energy that are created in an Agglatar’s hands? You need to shoot them in the air or while he’s still holding them.”

I waited for a response, preparing myself for the inevitable argument that would follow.

“I think so,” he said after a moment.

“Um. Good. I’ll…no, I’m not going to say anything more. Let’s leave it at that.”

I heard an explosion upstairs. The Agglatar was still in the mansion. Probably killing the poor security guards who were with the politician.

I was going to avenge Najosa. And the Society of the Free and Easy. And save the life of a Member of Parliament. But mostly avenge Najosa.

But what about his fear aura? I couldn’t fight someone if I was throwing up from terror.

One of the downstairs bathrooms had been demolished, and I saw a metal wastebasket lying in the rubble.

I walked over and examined it. It was about eighteen inches in height. Perfect.

I put the trashcan on my head like a helmet. I then crunched the bottom of it so it was snug around my neck.

Now I couldn’t see the Agglatar and hopefully wouldn’t be afraid of him. I didn’t need to see, I just needed Gun to see.

“Gun, can you hear me?”

“You sound odd,” he said.

I took a few steps and ran into the wall. Then I felt my way to the stairs, managed to walk up a dozen, then I stepped on some debris, tripped, and rolled back down to the ground floor.

Okay, this was stupid.

I untwisted the trashcan from my head.

I went back up the stairs, trying to get a sense of where the Agglatar was in the building. He shouldn’t be hard to find.

Shouldn’t be.

But after creeping around for ten minutes, I didn’t see or hear him. I saw some evidence of his passing, as there were more spent bullet casings on the ground, some walls had unsightly holes in them, and I found two security personnel who were no longer providing security.

I had been taking the stairs and I was winded. My legs hurt. I was hungry. I was really hungry.

Was I fat?

Najosa said that before she died and that kind of gave it a sense of importance. What a crappy thing to tell someone as you’re about to hitchhike to the afterlife.

“Give me a donation, please,” I heard a deep voice say behind me.

“No!” I whirled around.

I was scared. Petrified.

The Agglatar stood there. He didn’t have a scratch on him even after wiping out a small army of Ontakians and parliamentary police.

He looked upset.

A ball of light began to form in his right hand.

“Gun, shoot the energy!” I blurted.

“Bang!”

Gun fired and the Agglatar exploded to the left. The ball of light was gone.

“Pah!” I cried out with joy. “It worked!”

Gun had actually done it.

I wasn’t scared. I was excited.

The Agglatar stood up from where he had fallen. He didn’t look hurt. He looked angrier than ever.

“Give me a donation,” he said.

“No. Throw another energy ball at me,” I taunted.

The Agglatar put down his arms and began to run toward me.

“Hey!” I said. “Throw the thing. The light!”

He hit me square in my stomach with his right shoulder.

I doubled up over his back and he lifted me like a wet towel, throwing me behind him.

I cartwheeled in the air and landed flat on my back.

I turned over and lay on my chest, holding Gun with both hands.

The Agglatar faced me and created a glowing ball in each hand.

Before I could even speak:

“Bang! Bang!” Gun said.

The energy balls exploded, knocking the Agglatar backward where he hit the wall. His upper body actually protruded outside of the mansion.

The explosions had hit me as well and there was not only force, but heat. I rubbed my eyes and blinked them. My eyebrows had been burnt away. I couldn’t see out of my left eye, which only saw spots, but I could see out of my right.

I saw the Agglatar running at me.

He picked me up from the floor.

“Give me a donation!” He screamed.

His breath smelled minty.

“Shut up,” I said.

He punched me with a haymaker and I went tumbling down the hallway. My nose was broken and blood was smeared all over my face.

I pointed Gun again, waiting for the glowing balls, but the Agglatar had apparently learned not to do that. He came at me again and this time kicked me square in the neck.

I flipped feet-over-head.

I splatted on the ground a short distance away and coughed and gasped for air. How was this guy so strong? I weighed thousands of pounds and he was tossing me around like I was a feather.

He walked over and stood on my chest as he looked down at me.

“Give me money, please!” He said.

He took turns punching me with each fist. My head was whipping back and forth and I was so dazed I didn’t have a chance to be afraid.

He picked me up and rammed me into the wall. Once. Twice. Thrice. Green. Blopery. Gnerfuper.

I went limp. I felt myself passing out of consciousness.

He turned me over and screamed at me.

“Give me a donation!”

I don’t know where I got the energy. Frustration? Oncoming death?

“Donation for what?” I yelled.

And amazingly, he stopped.

“I must complete my purpose,” he said.

I could barely see him from my compound concussions, skull fractures, seared eyeballs, and copious amount of blood in my face.

“What is your damn purpose? What do you want a donation for?”

I didn’t mind dying so much. I just wanted to know why.

“I must destroy the First and Last,” he said.

I paused a second.

“Thad Elon?” I asked.

“It is known as that as well. Yes.”

“You want a donation to destroy Thad Elon?”

“Yes.”

“Well, shit, why didn’t you say so?”

“You will give me a donation?” he asked.

“Hell, yeah,” I said, slumping out of his grip. “I don’t…have any money on me.”

“Give me a donation,” he said, cocking back his fist.

“I will! I’ll totally give you all my money. Just…you know, stop punching me.”

The Agglatar helped me to my feet, but I fell back down.

“Give me a donation,” he said. But the malice was gone from his voice. I think I must have been the first person who ever agreed and he didn’t understand what to do next.

“Okay. We need to go to my house. Do you have a car? I guess you don’t have a car. It’s okay, here, hold on, don’t kick me or anything.”

I took out my tele.

“Cliston! Hi. I really need your help.”

“Sir, you look horrific! What happened to you?”

“Never mind that. I need you to get my money. The loan I got from Ulteem. And—” I looked back to the Agglatar. “How much money do you need?” I asked him.

It was clear he didn’t know. He probably didn’t even know what money was.

“Hey, forget it, buddy. Cliston, bring all my money.”

The Agglatar suddenly leaned over me and stared into the tele screen at Cliston.

“Give me a donation,” he demanded of the image.

“My goodness!” Cliston exclaimed.

“Yeah, Cliston, do you have any money I can borrow from you? He’s going to ask when you get here.”

“I…do, sir. But I don’t like to spend it.”

“It’s for a good cause, Cliston. I swear. This guy is the Agglatar.”

“Oh. From the Boranjame poem?”

“Yeah. He’s not very lyrical, though. Can you bring the money fast?”

I saw the Agglatar eyeing me suspiciously so I decided to reword it.

“The donation. Bring the donations fast.”

“Yes, sir. Just give me your location.”

I told Cliston where I was and I hung up.

I sat there a foot away from the Agglatar, waiting for an hour.

“Give me a donation,” he said for the eightieth time.

“I know. I know. It’s coming, remember?” I said, holding my hands up in a sign of submission.

Cliston walked up the stairs carrying a satchel.

“Hello, sir.”

“Give me a donation, please,” the Agglatar immediately said, his voice angry.

“It is here, Mr. Agglatar, sir.”

Cliston unzipped the bag of credits and put it on the ground.

The Agglatar cautiously walked over, keeping an eye on my broken form and Cliston.

He looked inside the bag and then quickly snatched it up and clutched it to his chest.

He kept staring back and forth between Cliston and me.

It was clear he didn’t know what to do next.

“That’s all my money,” I said. “I can’t give you any more of a donation than that.”

A ball of light began to glow in his hand.

“Oh, come on,” I complained.

He hurled it at the wall and it blew a hole to the outside.

The Agglatar then ran and jumped out of the sixth story and was gone.

“Sir, you need medical attention,” Cliston said, kneeling next to me.

“I do, Cliston. I really do. But I need to see the politician in this building first. If he’s still alive.”





CHAPTER 64




Cliston and I took the elevator up to the top floor of the mansion, as I was too beat up to walk the stairs.

“The main living quarters are up here,” I said.

“I really think we should get you to a hospital, sir,” Cliston replied, as he helped me along. “Your eyebrows are missing, by the way.”

“Yeah. But don’t worry, I’ll be fine,” I said, sniffling some blood from my broken nose.

There was no damage up here that I could see, so the Agglatar presumably hadn’t made his sales pitch this far.

The first two rooms we went into were empty. But on entering the third room:

Blam! Blam! Blam!

A man in a fine suit emptied a pistol at us. He missed so badly that it was pretty obvious who he was.

“I take it you’re a Member of Parliament?” I asked.

The man was handsome, middle-aged, and had absolutely perfect hair. He was standing with a taller, older man, who was wearing long robes.

“Who are you?” the gun-shooter demanded.

“Usually people ask that before they open fire,” I replied.

The guy was scared. The tall man in robes didn’t look concerned at all. He seemed completely oblivious. Almost relaxed.

Since neither of them were talking, I guessed it was up to me.

“Hi. I’m Hank. I saved your lives from a very aggressive non-profit.”

“What’s going on? Who was that?” the shooter asked.

“You know, I really don’t have the time or inclination to go over it. Besides, you probably wouldn’t believe me. Let’s just say I’m here to help you.”

“Is that…is that a Dredel Led?” he asked of Cliston.

I looked at my robot butler. They were technically at war with the PCC.

“No,” I began. “He’s not. He’s…something else.”

“What is he?” the man asked suspiciously.

“Does it matter? You’re alive. There’s a bunch of people in this building who aren’t. I need some answers,” I barked.

“What kind of answers?”

That was a good question.

“Well, why is a Member of Parliament here? Oh, and what’s your name? Name first, I guess.”

“I’m not a Member of Parliament. He is,” he said, pointing to the tall, robed man beside him, who still hadn’t moved or shown any emotion.

“Does he not speak?”

“That is correct.”

“Oh. Who are you?”

“I am his translator and assistant, Jer. He is Chief Minister of the Sub-Subcommittee on Extra-Non-Military Expenditures and Evaluations. His name is The Honorable Nanea Quoffus.”

“Did you get all that?” I asked Cliston.

“Yes, sir.”

“Good. Alright, Jer. What are you all doing here?”

“That’s Parliamentary Prerogative and none of your concern,” he said stiffly.

“Heh. Alright. Let’s forget I just saved your life for a second,” I said.

I pulled out Gun and pointed in the general direction of Nanea and Jer.

“Again, what are you all doing on Belvaille?”

Jer looked to Nanea, who nodded, raised an eyebrow, flared his nostrils, and made a few other very subtle gestures.

“Chief Chair Nanea refuses to communicate while at gunpoint,” Jer said.

I put Gun away with a sigh.

“This guy is kind of an ass, huh, Cliston?”

Nanea’s face twisted into a scowl.

“Oh, he can still hear?” I asked.

“Yes, his senses are fully functional, he merely chooses not to speak. He has taken a vow of silence,” Jer said.

“Of course he has,” I mumbled. “Right. Sorry about that, Mr. Minister. I’m not used to dealing with, you know, such men of principle.”

“Now explain who you are and what’s going on here,” Jer said.

“I’m…I’m the Master Overseer of Navy and Belvaille Relations. Hank. You were attacked by various groups,” I said. “I saved you.”

“Master Overseer, is it safe for us to remain here?”

I thought about that, and while I didn’t feel like moving anytime soon, I figured the Navy might show up with some soldiers to find out what all the explosions were about.

“No, it’s not safe here. We’ll go to my place,” I said.

“Sir, our home isn’t prepared to receive guests of this stature,” Cliston said urgently.

“They just survived a bloodbath, Cliston. I think they can handle some dirty carpets and finger food,” I replied.





CHAPTER 65




Cliston drove us back to City Hall.

Me, so beat up that Life Itself was going to put me on the Injured Reserve list. Nanea, the Minister of Parliament who didn’t talk. And his translator, Jer.

When we got to the elevator, I felt bad again about Ermie being gone. How he loved to press the buttons.

Now Najosa was gone as well.

It sure was dangerous being my friend.

“Do you live here?” Jer asked, after getting some non-verbal prompts from Chief Chieftain, Nanea.

“This is where we can talk,” I said. Not sure why I was being coy. I just didn’t trust these guys yet.

Cliston was a blur.

He cleaned up every room we stepped foot in, prepared some food and drinks, bandaged me, and managed to follow every diplomatic protocol that was expected. Of course, he did it at like fifty miles an hour.

We were all seated in my makeshift living room. I was not bleeding…much. And we were enjoying some tea and cookies.

When Cliston zipped out of the room, Jer leaned over to whisper to me.

“Do you realize our empire is engaged in open aggression with the Dredel Led?” he asked.

“Not my empire. I’m a citizen of Belvaille.”

“Where?” he asked, confused.

“Oh, right. Portal Depot #4382,” I corrected.

Nanea made some hand gestures.

“Yes, the Minister is concerned about this region’s dubious legal standing,” Jer said.

“That’s nice of him. But I need to know why you’re here,” I said.

“As we stated, that is Parliamentary Prerogative,” Jer replied.

“You don’t get it. People are trying to kill you. They almost succeeded. All your security guards are dead. I can help you, but I need to know what this is about. For instance: why are you in this System?”

Jer and Nanea went back and forth nodding and blinking and smirking and tilting their heads.

I realized I was too tired for this. My body was trying to repair itself and I needed food. Cliston sensed my troubles and he brought me a lot of cookies. About two pounds of them. I ate them all and slurped down my tea.

“The Minister has instructed me to tell you that he is here to investigate some irregularities that have been going on in this System,” Jer said.

“Irregularities?” I laughed.

I couldn’t begin to add up all the weird stuff that’s happened in Belvaille over the centuries.

“You know there’s a Boranjame sitting in this System?” I asked.

“That isn’t one of the Minister’s concerns. He’s here about the Navy and their procurement procedures.”

I stopped stuffing my face for a second.

“That’s it?” I asked, annoyed. “You’re here for bureaucratic niceties? What, is someone not using the right forms?”

I rubbed my forehead. I probably should get to a hospital.

“It’s an extremely important issue,” Jer said.

“Yeah, I bet.”

“You said yourself that someone was trying to kill us. That proves there are parties who don’t want to be discovered.”

“Discovered doing what? Stealing ink and file folders?” I asked.

“There are a tremendous number of accounting discrepancies going on here,” Jer said.

Man, I hope he wasn’t talking about the Skim. If he was, I might have to kill him myself.

“What discrepancies? Give me an example. To help figure out why you’re a target.”

“Well, for one, the payroll grossly exceeds the allotted budget,” Jer continued, after consulting with Nanea.

“Alright. Fat paychecks. Anything else?” I asked. “Hey, Cliston, can you make me some food? Some real food?”

Cliston appeared immediately.

“Sir, one does not yell into other rooms while in the presence of a Parliament Minister. Please excuse him. He’s suffered some injuries.”

Nanea waved his hand magnanimously.

“So that’s it? Payroll issues?” I asked.

“No, there is quite a list,” Jer said.

“I’m not getting any younger,” I replied.

“Purchases. Improvements. Non-employee payroll. Modifications. I’m not sure where to start.”

“What’s a non-employee payroll? Is that like to the people who live on Belvaille?” I asked.

Jer took out his tele and began sifting through.

Cliston thankfully brought me some porridge. I practically dove into it, until Cliston smacked me, wiped my mouth, and handed me a dainty spoon.

“Floloria,” Jer said.

“What?” I asked, mouth full of porridge.

“There is a substantial non-employee payroll to people on a city called Floloria. Do you know of it?”

“You guys are paying people on Floloria?” I asked, amazed.

“Our government is, yes.”

“Who are you paying? There’s no one there.”

Jer went flipping through his tele again.

“There are hundreds of people listed,” he said.

“What are some names?” I asked.

“Let’s see. Zydolium 48. Zydolium 49. Zydolium 50. And on, and on,” Jer said.

“Holy crap,” I said.

I bet those were the clones! They didn’t even bother to hide it. So Thad’s Friend was really named “Zydolium”?

“Who authorized those payments? Who in your government?” I asked.

“The Navy, of course. The Minister is on the Sub-Subcommittee on Extra-Non-Military Expenditures and Evaluations,” he said, like that should make sense.

“Okay. But who authorized it? Who gave the money?” I asked.

“The Head Account Auditor,” he said simply.

“Oh. Yeah. I don’t know who that is,” I said, stumped.

“He reports to the Supreme Requisition Clerk.”

“Well, of course he does.”

“Who reports to the Joint High Wardian and Marshall of the South-by-Southwest Region,” Jer finished.

“The Wardian? Wardian Boshe?”

“He is the only Joint High Wardian in this System,” Jer said.

“So you’re saying that the Wardian is paying people—those names and numbers—on Floloria?” I tried to clarify.

“No,” Jer replied, like I was stupid.

I slumped. I didn’t understand this.

“The Wardian orders his subordinates to pay them. He wouldn’t pay himself,” Jer said.

If I wasn’t so tired, I would have punched the guy.

“Okay. Okay. What else? You said modifications? Purchases?” I asked.

Jer went back to his tele.

“There was one listing that was extremely odd,” he said, flipping through the screens.

I was on the edge of my seat waiting.

“Here. There is a large expenditure for Non-Employee Pharmacological Materials,” he said.

“What’s that mean?”

“That’s what the Minister wants to find out. I did some research and I’ve never heard of a drug called daxapronal,” he said.

“No way!” I started laughing.

Mr. Boshe was actually paying Thad’s Friend, the old Rettosian scientist, Zydolium, to manufacture the Ontakian drug? And he made paperwork for it? It was almost too insane to imagine.

But I guess I was used to criminals. We could just hand someone a bag filled with money. Where would the Navy get the money? Where would they get the bag? They had to fill out forms.

“Wait a minute. Hold on. I’ll be right back,” I said.

I hopped out of the room and into the pantry that Cliston used as a kitchen.

“Sir, one does not leave his guests before the main course is served,” Cliston said.

“Cliston, go entertain them. I have to call Garm.”

“I can’t entertain them, sir. I’m a butler! Besides, they suspect I’m a Dredel Led.”

“Can you do some magic tricks or something?” I asked.

“I know quite a few illusions and sleight of hand I can perform, sir.”

“Really? I’d kind of like to see that. No, wait, you can show me later. Just give me a minute to make a call.”

Cliston took off his apron and left the room.

“Garm! Garm! You won’t believe this. The Navy is behind the hack. They’re behind everything. They’re behind the Ontakians. They’re behind the Rettosian.”

“What are you talking about?” Garm answered. “What happened to your face?”

“It’s Mr. Boshe! They have files that show he requisitioned this stuff,” I said.

“But why?”

“Why what?” I asked.

“Why would he hire the Rettosian? Or the Ontakians? If he wanted to hack the Dredel Led, for whatever reason, he could have instructed my team to do so.”

“To start the war. He gave me some big long speech a while ago about how the Colmarians were at their best when they were fighting. He really believed it. Besides, he was Mister Boshe before the war.”

“And now he’s Joint High Wardian and Marshall of the South-by-Southwest Region,” she said.

“Or whatever.”

“Do you think he also created that big Dredel Led you were talking about?” Garm asked.

“Kai’Un. No, I think he paid the Rettosian to do it so it would vote for war.”

“You said they have paperwork to prove that?” she asked.

“Yeah, tons. So can we get him fired and get this stupid war called off?”

The tele was quiet a moment.

“Are you serious?” she asked.

“Sure. Boshe was working with crazy Rettosians. And crazy Ontakians. And he hacked the Dredel Led. And maybe I can get my fifty million.”

“Hank. It took years for him to get that job. Even if you have a thousand eyewitnesses, it would have to go to trial. There would be investigations. There would be lawsuits.”

“But why? We have proof! You can probably find the paperwork where he hired the Ontakians to assassinate the Minister!”

“This is the PCC. It took that minister six months just to fly out here. It would take a decade to get Wardian Boshe fired.”

“That will be a decade of war,” I said.

“If Wardian Boshe is really behind this—I believe you—and he would go so far as to try and murder a Parliament Minister—”

“Not to mention start an intergalactic war,” I added.

“Right. He’s not going to sit around and let this go to trial. Or for us to investigate. You need to get him out of office immediately. Kill him.”

“Me? You’re the assassin.”

“But you’re Hank,” she said.

I moved the tele all around my face and body so she could get a better view.

“Look at me. Right now I’m half a Hank.”

“Maybe you don’t have to kill him. But you need to stop him before he does any more damage. Talk to the Minister. That politician has civilian oversight.”

“Okay, but it will probably have to wait until tomorrow. It’s like 4 am.”

“Fair enough. But the longer he has, the more he can entrench his position.”

“What’s that even mean?”

“There’s a war on, Hank. After a while it doesn’t matter who started it or why.”

I went back to my visitors and they were busy cheering and applauding at Cliston. Even the mute Minister was holding his sides and belly laughing.

“What? What did I miss?” I asked.

“Nothing, sir. I’ll prepare rooms for our distinguished guests to sleep in.”

“That reminds me. I don’t know how to put this delicately, but I have to consider the Minister’s safety above all else,” Jer said.

“Which is why tomorrow, he has to go speak to Wardian Boshe and have him sacked from his job,” I said.

“Sacked? You mean fired? That’s not why we’re here,” Jer said. “But I was talking about the immediate future. You said you can protect him, but…you look rather injured yourself.”

“Oh, don’t let the blood and scabs fool you. I have a talking, intelligent gun that never misses,” I said.

Jer looked at me like he suddenly realized I had dementia.

“No, seriously. That’s how I survived your attackers. Look.”

I took out Gun and put it on the table in front of us.

“That’s an ancient alien artifact,” I lied.

“May I?” Jer asked.

“Sure. It only shoots if you tell it to,” I explained.

Jer turned over Gun in his hands. At first he held it gingerly, but then he seemed confused.

“It has no trigger. It has nothing mechanical at all,” he said.

“No. It’s like energy. Gravity. Gravity energy. And bioelectricity.”

Jer kept examining Gun skeptically.

“But how does it fire?”

“Bang!” Gun said.

Jer dropped the pistol and sat there with a small hole in his forehead. He had been looking down the barrel a moment before.

My mouth hung open, dumbfounded. The Minister silently shrieked.

I cleared my throat and gently picked up Gun.

“Uh, Gun?” I asked.

“Hello.”

“Why did you shoot him?”

“He said fire.”

“No, he asked how does it fire?”

“Like that,” Gun said simply.





CHAPTER 66




Cliston gave something to Parliament Minister Nanea to calm him down and help him sleep.

Not sure what it was, exactly. But after a day where the Minister’s security team got murdered by a rampaging Agglatar, and his assistant committed suicide with a talking gun, Cliston must have administered some hardcore narcotics.

I slept by the door.

Not because I was afraid of anyone attacking. I was afraid of Nanea sneaking off in the night. I wouldn’t exactly blame him, but I couldn’t let him leave.

The Honorable Nanea Quoffus was the only means I had of removing Wardian Boshe from office, and bringing an end to this pointless war with the Dredel Led. Unfortunately, Nanea didn’t talk, and his translator was dead. As we ate breakfast the next day, these facts weighed heavily on my bandaged head.

The night had been good to me, for the most part. I no longer felt like a wet sack of meat that had been dragged behind a big truck.

I felt like a dry sack of meat that had been dragged behind a smaller truck.

Cliston was kind enough to draw some eyebrows on me since mine had been burnt away fighting the Agglatar.

“So, Nanea,” I began. “Are you ready to go to the Armage and confront Wardian Boshe?”

Nanea shook his head vigorously in the universal sign of “no.”

“That question was kind of rhetorical. You have to confront him.”

“Perhaps a small drink might steady Your Honor’s nerves?” Cliston offered.

“Give him whatever it was you gave him last night to sleep,” I said.

“That’s for sleep, sir.”

“Can I talk to you for a second, Cliston?”

We went into the other room as the Minister sat there looking terrified and confused.

“Cliston, Wardian Boshe is going to find out that his Ontakian assassins failed. We can’t simply wait here in City Hall for the next hit squad.”

“I realize that, sir. But the Minister appears to be in no shape to give testimony. And he has lost his translator.”

“Yeah. That’s bad. But give him something to stay relaxed. I think I can work with this.”



I was flying in the Suckface with Zzzho and the pleasantly buzzed Minister Nanea.

I felt naked. But only figuratively. Cliston had dressed me in my fanciest gown. It was an iridescent violet with green fringes.

But I didn’t have Gun with me. I didn’t have any weapons.

When I tried to bring Gun, Nanea, even in his drugged state, would panic and scream. I guess seeing his translator blow his brains out with Gun didn’t make him especially comfortable around it.

So I was unarmed, headed to a Navy battlecruiser to arrest the top-ranking official in the entire System, using a drugged and mute Parliament Minister, and I was wearing a dress.

It could be worse. I could have cancer. Or literally be on fire.

“Do you smell smoke?” I asked Zzzho nervously.

“I don’t have a nose,” he replied. “But I don’t detect any irregularities in the compartment.”

“Okay. Just checking.”

I had all of Nanea’s official documentation that proved he was a hotshot Member of Parliament. I hoped it was enough, since Nanea couldn’t exactly explain himself.

“You look nice,” Zzzho said to me.

“Thanks,” I said. “This is a new outfit.”

“No, I mean your eyebrows look different. Kind of glittery.”

“Yeah. It’s make-up,” I said.

“I wish I could wear make-up,” Zzzho buzzed.

“You’re a gas cloud,” I said.

“Am I really? Golly, I thought I was a tree this whole time,” Zzzho said, annoyed.

“Hey, sorry.”

“It’s okay. It’s…seeing everyone wear all their different clothes and styles makes me a little jealous,” he said.

“Dude. You eat radiation. You don’t sleep. I saw you get rammed by a spaceship and not get hurt. And you can electrocute peoples’ brains. I wish I was like you,” I said.

“You do?”

“Sure. You have any idea how much time I spend sleeping? Or going to the bathroom?”

“Yeah, but I can’t do anything. Unless there are special receptacles for me to plug in.”

“Doing nothing is underrated! I want to do nothing. But then I run out of money. Or food. Or someone tries to kill me. I’m telling you, you got it good.”

“Huh. Thanks. We’re coming up on the Armage. Ten minutes.”



I was standing in the visitor processing area of the battlecruiser Armage and it was taking longer than usual. Apparently, no one was exactly sure how to handle a visiting Parliamentarian. Half the people were saluting. Half were bowing. And half were busy reading the various instruction manuals.

“And who are you?” one of the soldiers finally got around to asking me.

“I’m the Master Overseer of Parliamentary Translations. I shall be speaking for Nanea Quoffus,” I said with authority.

The soldier scrutinized Nanea’s various paperwork.

“Now be gone, and summon the Wardian. He’s still in charge, right?” I asked.

“He is.”

“Good. Then bring him here immediately.”

“You don’t want to visit him in his office? Instead of here?” the soldier asked, looking around at the open hangar.

“Yes. We will go to his office. That is what we choose to do,” I stated confidently. “Lead us to him.”

I looked over at Nanea, who was aghast, shaking his head. I guess his soothing drugs had worn off on the trip over here.

“Um, the Minister is thanking you all for performing such an excellent job,” I said.

All the soldiers were pleased and congratulating one another.

As we walked through the corridors, Nanea kept grabbing at officers and mouthing words. But they all looked to me for the meaning.

“He said he likes your haircut,” I translated.

“Thank you!”

Nanea took someone’s tele and began typing frantically.

“I’ll read that for you, sir,” I said, wrestling the tele from him.

“Nanea asks that we should have some food. Sausages, beer, and sandwiches. In fact, food and drink for everyone,” I said, deleting the original message which had stated he was my captive and I didn’t have permission to speak for him.

“In here, sir,” one of the soldiers said at a doorway, but Nanea tried to run away from us.

“This is an exercise he likes doing. He calls it, ‘resisting arrest.’ Can you please bring him here? He likes to put up a fight.”

The soldiers did as they were told and grabbed the silently protesting Minister and hauled him into the room.

A soldier stared at me skeptically during all this.

“Don’t be so narrow-minded,” I said to him. “The cultural norms of every species are dramatically different. For example, on my home planet, it is common to wear a dress, bandages, and burn off your eyebrows and then draw them back on.”

The soldier nodded dimly.

“Is your nose broken, sir?” he asked.

I reached up and felt I had blood dripping down my face.

“No. This is a fashion accessory. I find it insulting you would ask me,” I huffed.

“I’m terribly sorry! This is my first time hosting a politician’s staff,” he stammered.

We entered the room. Wardian Boshe stood in front of us looking terribly confused.

“Hank?” he asked.

“Master Overseer of Political Translations,” I corrected.

Minister Nanea was pantomiming desperately.

One of the soldiers stepped forward.

“May I introduce the Chief Minister of the Sub-Subcommittee on Extra-Non-Military Expenditures and Evaluations. The Honorable Nanea Quoffus,” he said.

“And I’m his translator,” I added.

“No, you’re not,” Boshe stated.

The Minister pointed at Boshe and nodded his head vigorously in agreement.

“Nanea says that I am. And that you’re a jerk.”

“Everyone,” Boshe began, “this person is a con man and a liar. He is a thief and is likely collaborating with the Dredel Led.”

Nanea was flailing his arms with frustration.

“The Minister declares that you are under arrest,” I said.

“Pah! On what grounds?” Boshe demanded.

“For aiding…Rettosian scientists. Buying narcotics. And starting a war,” I stated.

“Arrest that man! I order you,” Boshe yelled.

“No. Arrest him. I—Nanea orders you,” I replied.

The soldiers didn’t look especially keen on arresting anyone. This was clearly not in the manual and clearly outside their paygrade.

“Nanea says to take his weapons,” I added.

One of the soldiers got smart.

“Is that true, Minister?” the soldier asked.

Nanea jumped up and down and shook his head in the negative.

“That means yes,” I said.

It was obvious that this was failing fast. My plan hadn’t been very good to start and it was getting worse by the second.

“Hey, give me your gun,” I said to the man nearest me. I was unarmed and felt keenly aware of it.

The soldier recoiled like I had tried to kiss him.

“Present arms!” I yelled.

The soldier snapped to attention and whipped his rifle up. Got to love that military training.

I reached out and took the rifle from him. He tried to resist, but he didn’t weigh thousands of pounds—and I did.

“Okay, Boshe, freeze,” I said.

“See? He is threatening the High Wardian and Marshall of this region,” Boshe said.

“I’m not threatening you. I was just telling you to stand still.”

I squeezed the trigger on the rifle. Or at least I tried to. I got fat fingers. And, apparently, these guys carry around fully automatic rifles.

Blap! Blap! Blap! Blap!

I emptied the magazine. That wasn’t my intention. I just wanted to scare Boshe so he would shut up. But I must have shot him at least four times, the other eleven shots missing completely, as the gun fired out of control.

“Woops,” I said. “I’m not used to a gun that doesn’t talk back.”

“Arrest him! Now!” I heard an unfamiliar voice yell with conviction.

The soldiers drew their weapons and pointed them at me. Two men were on their teles calling for backup.

“Holy crap,” I said, looking at the furious Minister Nanea. “You can talk.”





CHAPTER 67




I was in the brig of a battlecruiser.

Brig.

That translates into “unbelievably tiny prison” in Naval-ese. I don’t think there was enough room in here for me to sneeze.

The frustrating part was that I could push against these bars and pop them right out of the wall.

But then what?

There was something like ten thousand soldiers on this ship. Even if I managed to headbutt my way past them all, what was I going to do next? Open a window and throw rocks at the couple hundred other warships floating around me?

I was a prisoner of the Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation. The funny thing was, they read off my rights when they arrested me. I now had more personal rights and freedoms than I did as a citizen of Belvaille.

I technically got a promotion.

It just didn’t feel like it.

The food in prison was actually pretty amazing. They had a master chef just for me. Well, for the entire brig, but I was the only person locked up.

I wasn’t sure what the penalties were for impersonating a translator, lying on behalf of a Parliament Minister, and assassinating a Wardian, but I had to suspect they were pretty substantial.

I spent my time wondering how they would try and execute me. Firing squad wouldn’t work. Hanging wouldn’t work. They couldn’t get a needle through my skin to administer a lethal injection. Unfortunately, I felt they would keep trying until they got it right.

It was my third night in prison. My drawn-on eyebrows had washed away, but the hair was starting to come back. I was even getting used to my cramped conditions and learned how to sleep while leaning against the wall.

The next day, they suddenly took me out and transferred me to a large room. There were about forty armed guards and six protocol officers shuffling papers.

I guessed they were going to officially charge me. But no. Much to my amazement, Cliston was led into the same room with me!

“Cliston,” I said, shocked.

One of the protocol officers spoke.

“Do you accept this person as your designated barrister?”

I was almost too stunned to answer.

“What?” I asked.

“Do you want me as your lawyer, sir?” Cliston said.

“Sure. Yeah!” I blurted.

“Duly noted,” the protocol officer replied, and they all began stamping forms and writing on documents.

“In that case, my client demands he be transferred to cell 240 on Jano level. He also requires the air be continually filtered with a Maxomatic Scrubber. As his barrister, I also need to share his cell so that I may provide legal consultation.”

The protocol officers huddled up and began to argue.

“I think you’ll find the Penal Systems Handbook version 84.3.2 under the section on Prisoner Well-Being makes all this legal. Failure to grant these requests could put any future prosecution in jeopardy,” Cliston added.

I had no idea what was going on, but at least Cliston was here. He’d get me out of this if anyone could.

“Transfer the prisoners,” the officer said.

“Prisoners?” I asked.

Handcuffs were placed on Cliston and we were taken to a different holding cell.

The new room was much larger and it didn’t have metal bars. Instead, it had a solid steel door.

“What’s going on, Cliston?” I asked.

“We can’t talk yet, sir. We have to wait,” he replied.

I sat there silently for what seemed like hours. Finally, they wheeled into our cell a giant metal contraption, hooked it up, and turned it on.

It was loud!

“The Maxomatic Scrubber,” Cliston explained, once the guards had left.

“How did you know all those legal things about the PCC?”

“I learned it from you, sir.”

“Me? I don’t know any of that stuff. I know some laws about shipping because of the Skim, but not about criminal justice.”

“I mean I made it all up. I lied. I learned that from you.”

“You didn’t know how to lie before you met me?” I asked, wondering just how bad an influence I’d been.

“I did. But I didn’t know how to lie convincingly. I figured that with all the PCC legislation, they couldn’t possibly know if I was quoting legitimate procedures. They would err on the side of caution—provided I didn’t ask for anything too outrageous.”

“So are you my lawyer? Are you going to get the charges dropped?” I asked.

“I am representing you, sir. But you are accused, last I saw, of 2,648 infractions of the PCC Legal Code. It is unlikely those will be reversed,” Cliston said.

“Why are you in handcuffs?”

“Garm arrested me, sir.”

“I knew it! That bitch. Didn’t I say we shouldn’t trust her? What was your crime?”

“Being a Dredel Led, sir.”

“Terrible! She probably figures I’m a lost cause and is trying to suck up to her bosses. That’s just like her. Things get tough and she bails on her friends. Hah! ‘Friends.’ She doesn’t have any friends,” I ranted.

“Actually, sir, this is all part of her plan to break you out of prison.”

“Oh,” I said. “How?”

“Garm has a copy of the blueprints of this vessel. Our current room is in a section that was not formally completed. There is no armor on the outside.”

“So?” I asked.

Cliston removed his handcuffs with ease. He then opened his chest cavity, which I didn’t know he could do, and removed several small items.

“I smuggled these inside. It’s why Garm ‘arrested’ me. We are going to cut our way out with this torch. The air scrubber is to mask the noise.”

“Cliston, you might be able to hold your breath in space, but I can’t.”

Cliston held up two handles and what looked like an attached rubber blanket. I recognized it immediately.

“An emergency pressure suit! I have those on my ship,” I said. “Do you want to hear the safety instructions for them?”

“Another time, perhaps, sir. This suit will protect you once we’re outside and provide you with air.”

“Yeah, but are we going to walk back to Belvaille? It took hours to get here in a spaceship. And those suits only have ten minutes of oxygen,” I said.

“The Suckface is sitting cloaked a short distance from us. Garm is operating the stealth controls. We will cut our way out and you will use your mutation to fly us to your ship,” Cliston explained.

“Should I put it on now?” I asked.

“You need to wait until I’ve finished cutting or you will run out of air,” Cliston said.

“How did you guys learn I was in jail?”

“News spread quickly that you gunned down Wardian Boshe. Then Garm got us together to devise a plan on how you might escape.”

“I was…upset when I spoke about Garm earlier. She’s good people. A good friend,” I said.

“Yes, sir. We will attempt the escape after dinner and lights out,” Cliston said.

Dinner was brought to me and I had to point out a few things.

“See how the chef put sauce in the little cupcake thing? So I can use it to dip and then eat it. Assuming we get out of this, you should do that with your sauces.”

“Yes, sir.”

When I had gone to the bathroom and it was bedtime, we made our move. The first thing we did was spot-weld the lock on the door to slow down anyone in case they heard us.

Next, Cliston began to make cuts in the wall with the little torch. The incisions were shaped like a hexagon with the corners not connected. Then he made a larger hexagon outside of that with the corners connected but not the sides.

“You should put on the spacesuit now, sir,” Cliston said.

“Are we going to get sucked out when you finish?”

“I’m already finished. The torch is depleted. You will have to run into the wall to break it free.”

“I have to kick open the side of a battlecruiser?”

“As I said, this wall should be unarmored.”

“Should be?”

“Delovoa made the calculations. He found that with your mass, and those incisions, the outline should break free with the first hit,” Cliston explained.

“Now I’m trusting my life on Delovoa’s calculations? What kind of plan is this?”

“Sir. Please put on your suit and try,” Cliston said calmly.

Despite having practiced my safety speech on emergency pressure suits about fifty times, I had never actually used one.

I mouthed the instructions to myself as I grasped both handles, held my arms wide, and then pressed the plungers with my thumbs.

There was a tremendous rubber stretching noise and I found my body completely swathed with a tight, synthetic suit and my head capped with an inflated helmet that was snug at the neck. It happened so fast it was quite startling.

“I can barely see. Why isn’t it transparent?” I asked.

“I believe the coating helps block light and radiation, sir.”

The rubber clothes fit…well, they fit perfectly. The only downside was I was still clasping the plastic handles and my fists were fully enclosed. I couldn’t use my fingers at all.

“Do I look stupid in this bubble hat, Cliston?”

“Yes, you do, sir. But I’m afraid that isn’t important right now.”

“Alright. Here goes,” I said.

I took off at a run, hit the wall with my shoulder and:

Bonk!

I fell to the floor. The wall was perfectly intact.

“Ow.”

My bubble helmet swayed back and forth from the collision.

“Try again, sir,” Cliston encouraged, as he helped me back up.

I hit the wall again. Then again. Then again.

Then I tried ramming it with my left shoulder since I think I dislocated my right. But I couldn’t get enough power.

“This isn’t working, Cliston. I can’t bash my way out of a battlecruiser.”

“You’re going to run out of oxygen soon, sir. This is our only plan to get you out.”

“Yeah, but if they put me in a prison on an actual planet, it’d be a lot easier to escape,” I said.

“That doesn’t seem likely, sir. Garm suggested they would poison your food.”

“What? Why did you let me eat dinner?”

“It won’t be for several weeks while they await authorization.”

“The Navy doesn’t seem like the poisoning type.”

“It’s considered a compassionate means of execution since the victim doesn’t know it’s coming,” Cliston explained.

“Now I do. I won’t be able to eat anything. And they have a really good cook.”

“Try the wall again, sir.”

I kicked at it, pushed it, I even yelled at it once.

“It’s no use, Cliston.”

“Use me as a battering ram, sir.”

“Huh?”

Cliston put one arm over his head to protect himself. He then made a loop out of his other arm and raised one leg at a weird angle. Even with my hands bundled up inside the pressure suit, I could hook my arms through and swing Cliston.

“Okay. If you’re sure.”

I lifted Cliston and banged him against the wall.

“Harder, sir.”

Bong!

“Harder!”

I swung him forward and the next thing I knew, I was in outer space! Cliston was quick enough to grab hold of me before we floated apart.

We twirled like leaves in a tornado.

I was completely at a loss what to do until I remembered that I could fly.

I closed my eyes and concentrated. I not only righted myself, but managed to start puttering forward.

Cliston tapped and tugged at me. After a bit of this, he managed to get me going in the right direction. He must have memorized the location of the ship because I didn’t see it. Though I couldn’t see much at all with this colored helmet.

We were travelling forward when I started to get lightheaded.

Oh, crap, I was running out of oxygen!

I could feel the temperature rising as I began breathing more and more of my exhaled air.

I felt I was about to suffocate!

From pure fear, I started fumbling with my helmet, trying to take it off.

Cliston locked my arms behind my back so I couldn’t move. Huge splotches of color began to appear in my vision and I think I was hyperventilating.

This was my prophesy.

The Boranjame had told me exactly how I would die:

Betrayed and murdered by my best friend. Unloved, my corpse deserted in the coldness of space, where memory of me would swiftly become less substantial than the faded light of a long-dead star.

My muscles cramped. I stopped struggling. And I passed into complete and utter blackness.





CHAPTER 68




“Is he dead? Can I have his gun if he dies?” I heard Delovoa say.

I was lying on the floor of the Suckface staring at the ceiling.

Around me were Delovoa and Cliston. Garm was busy at the ship controls.

“What happened?” I asked.

“You’re quite safe now,” Cliston said.

“I wouldn’t say ‘safe.’ We still need to get out of here. If that battlecruiser decides to scan this area, for whatever reason, we’re dead.”

“Setting course for Belvaille,” Zzzho said over the intercom.

“Take it really slow,” Garm replied. “I have to keep scrambling our signature and I can’t do that if you go fast.”

“Garm,” I said, “you’re here.”

“Yeah, I’m here. Did he suffer brain damage or something?”

“I’m here too, Hank. Remember your good buddy, Delovoa?”

Delovoa stuck his rancid face a few inches from mine. His mucous nose dripped on me and his mouthful of metal teeth smiled hideously.

“Ugh, move,” I said, sitting up.

“You’re famous again,” Delovoa said.

“Why?”

“On account that you murdered Wardian Boshe, in cold blood, on his flagship, in front of a hundred armed soldiers.”

“There weren’t a hundred,” I replied.

“Oh,” Delovoa answered, clearly disappointed.

“It was like…two hundred.”

“And now you may be the first person to ever escape from a Navy prison ship.”

“Brig,” I said.

“What?”

“Brig is what they call Navy prison. It’s like a special word.”

“I know what a brig is,” Delovoa said.

“Then why did you ask?”

“Sir, sorry to interrupt, but there is still a major problem. The PCC and Dredel Led remain at war.”

“What else can I do? I killed Wardian Boshe.”

“Kai’Un still exists. You may have eliminated the main reason the Colmarians wanted war, but that doesn’t change the Dredel Led side.”

“Well, point me at Kai’Un and give me a machine gun. I’ll shoot him, too,” I said.

“Seriously, check him for brain damage,” Garm said.

“We know Kai’Un is on Floloria,” Cliston stated.

“That’s what we suspect, but are we really sure?” I asked.

“We’re sure. I researched the invoices and paperwork that Boshe generated. He had a ‘Project Kai’Un’ based on Floloria. It’s been going on for almost five years and consumed over three billion credits worth of Navy funding,” Garm said.

“Wow. No wonder he was being investigated by Parliament. I guess Boshe was planning the war for a long time. But that blows. I risked my life to kill the Wardian and it didn’t accomplish anything because Kai’Un is still around? Did it at least stop the hacking?”

“I stopped it,” Garm said. “After you murdered Boshe, I had some technicians go out to the ‘broken’ telescope and remove the hacking equipment. Simple.”

“What was the hack? Did we ever find out exactly?”

“Sir, I personally feel it was how Thad’s Friend, Zydolium, learned to build Kai’Un. As intelligent as he may be, it is not an easy task to create one of my species. As Garm stated, the Kai’Un project was going on for five years,” Cliston said.

“Okay, but before we mess with a giant Dredel Led, can I get a few days off at least? I still haven’t recovered from fighting the Agglatar. Then I was in prison—”

“The brig,” Delovoa said.

“Then I almost died flying here—hey, when you’re telling people about this story, mention that I flew here.”

Garm cleared her throat loudly.

“No one is going to breathe a word about this escapade.”

“Why not?” I asked.

“Because if it is hinted that I, the Adjunct Overwatch, helped an assassin escape from…The Brig…then my life won’t be worth a drop of piss at a urine factory.”

It was deathly silent in the Suckface for a while.

“People are going to ask how I got away,” I said.

“Tell them it’s none of their damn business. Keep your fat mouth shut for once. I’m serious, Hank. Right now, you’re a wanted felon. The PCC is going to be searching for you and anyone else involved,” Garm said. “I saved your life. This is the tiny repayment I ask.”

“Fine,” I sulked. “But it was a pretty glorious escape if you ask me.”

“Sir. What about Kai’Un?” Cliston said.

“There’s a bunch of clones with high-tech weapons on Floloria. Can’t we use one of these cruisers to blast Kai’Un from space?”

“Not after you murdered Wardian Boshe, no. I’d say we need some kind of explosives,” Garm said.

“Explosives? I know where we can get a tactical warhead,” I replied.



We were in the upstairs apartments of the Society of the Free and Easy back on Belvaille.

“Talk about a gun fetish,” Delovoa said, as we walked past row after row of guns, rockets, grenades, and all manner of weaponry.

“You sure no one will come in on us?” Garm asked, her hand on her pistol.

“They’re all dead. Unless they come back to life, we should be fine,” I said.

I was carrying an armful of sausages I picked up at The Club before we came here.

“There it is,” I said.

The warhead rested in the middle of the room.

“Goodness,” Delovoa said. “A Massive Enhanced Plasma Ordnance.”

“How is it everyone knows about this secret Ontakian weapon?” I asked, annoyed.

“It’s written on the side,” Delovoa said.

“Oh, that’s right.”

“Is this capable of being used against Kai’Un?” Cliston asked.

“It’s capable of destroying all life in an entire city,” Frank said, having entered the room behind us.

Garm drew her pistol. Delovoa practically jumped on top of the warhead in his fright. And I was about ready to throw a sausage.

“Frank, what are you doing here?” I asked. I was still mad at him for leaving me when the Agglatar showed up. He had on his breathing mask as usual, but I could tell it was him from his voice, his build, and the fact he was the only person on Belvaille who wore a breathing mask.

“I’ve been watching this armory to see if any of the Society survived. You’re the first people to visit,” he said.

“Do you know anything about this weapon?” Delovoa inquired.

“It was built during our slave rebellion. I heard it would create an enormous plasma pulse. The idea was we could detonate the bomb right in the middle of our own troops and it wouldn’t hurt us, because we’re immune to plasma weapons, but it would kill the Rettosians.”

“Was it ever used?” Delovoa asked.

“I don’t think it was even tested,” Frank said.

Delovoa examined the warhead with a new appreciation.

“So you’re back,” Frank said to me.

“No thanks to you. That Agglatar almost killed me,” I said.

“I meant from the Armage.”

“Yeah.”

“I heard you fought your way past three hundred guards, spat in Wardian Boshe’s face, then ripped his head off,” Frank said.

“Pretty much.”

“How did you escape from the ship?”

I looked over at Garm, who remained stone-faced and impassive.

“I don’t know. I forget.”

There was a large metal bang and we all turned to see Delovoa had taken the cover off the warhead.

“You’re going to blow us all up!” I yelled.

“Relax. I’m a weapons designer, remember?” Delovoa said.

“What do you think? Could this be used against an extremely large Dredel Led on Floloria?” Cliston asked.

“Give me a moment to check it out,” Delovoa complained.

“Are you simply here to loot this apartment?” Garm asked Frank.

“Yes,” he replied.

“You can’t have the warhead,” I said.

“I don’t want anything to do with it.”

“This is very shoddy construction,” Delovoa said.

“It was made by slave scientists during a slave rebellion. They only had access to materials that they stole,” Frank explained.

“Then it’s extremely advanced construction, considering,” Delovoa amended.

“Will it work?” I asked.

“It’s in bad shape, but most of it’s here,” Delovoa said.

“Can we use the Suckface and drop it on Floloria?”

“It wouldn’t make it through the shields,” Garm said.

“It’s a warhead. Can we put it on top of a missile?” I asked.

“Sure. If you give me a few years and a few million credits to build an intergalactic rocket,” Delovoa said. “Barring that, it would have to be rigged as a bomb.”

“So we need to be standing on a city that gets destroyed?” I asked.

“That’s not what this weapon does. It would emit a low-intensity plasma wave. It would be strong enough to kill most biological lifeforms—except Ontakians. But the buildings should be fine.”

“What about Dredel Led?” Cliston asked.

“A byproduct would be a strong electromagnetic field that disrupts all electronics. It may wipe your memory clean,” Delovoa said.

“I wasn’t speaking of me. I was referring to Kai’Un. He has a million minds.”

Delovoa lifted some pieces out of the warhead.

“Here’s a big problem. The plasma core has deteriorated,” Delovoa said.

“What’s that mean?” I asked.

“I’d say this weapon originally had the blast radius of a small city. But now, if it works, it might only kill everything within a dozen city blocks,” he said.

“Only. That’s way more than enough,” I said.

“Actually, sir, Kai’Un may easily be that size,” Cliston replied.

“So we’re going to have to land a spaceship on Floloria. Look around for where Kai’Un is hidden. Then drag this bomb over to him?”

“Floloria is deserted. I doubt they ‘hid’ Kai’Un. Especially if it’s as large as Cliston says,” Garm replied.

“We also have to make sure they don’t disarm the bomb,” Delovoa added.

“How would anyone know to disarm it?” I asked.

“Because on that city is a scientist and his clones. He’s mastered teleportation, mutation, cloning, and self-aware handguns. He’s probably not going to see a plasma warhead and think it’s a big, harmless piece of candy.”

“There has to be an easier way to destroy a million-mind computer,” I said.

“I’ll help you with this Floloria mission,” Frank said.

I believe everyone was shocked. Even the people who didn’t know my uncle very well.

“I…don’t have any money to pay you. I gave it all to the Agglatar,” I said.

“No problem. How long will it take you to make this bomb operational?” Frank asked Delovoa.

“I need at least 24 hours,” he replied.

“Alright. Call me up when you’re ready to go,” Frank said.

“Wait. Wait,” I stammered. “Let me see if I understand. You’re volunteering to help drag this plasma bomb over to Floloria. Where we might be attacked by Rettosian scientist clones.”

“Yeah. Sounds about right,” Frank said.

“Do you even know why we want to do this?”

“No,” he shrugged.

Was this really my uncle?

“Delovoa. The warhead. It doesn’t explode into gold or jewels, does it?”

“No. Just a lot of radiation,” he said.

“Frank, do you know of anything valuable on Floloria? Like Kai’Un is made out of…mountains of credits?”

“I don’t even know what Kai’Un is,” he replied.

“It’s a false Dredel Led that must be destroyed,” Cliston stated.

“Right. We’ll get to that. But Frank, can I ask you why you want to help?”

He sighed deeply.

“I kind of figure I owe you after last time. Besides, you’re my nephew. You’re probably the only relation I have left.”

“Probably,” I said. “So you don’t expect to make any money out of this?”

“Oh, I’m going to sell every weapon in this armory—except the warhead. I figure, since you murdered Wardian Boshe, the PCC will declare martial law. Hardware like this is going to be at a real premium.”

“Okay! That makes sense,” I said.





CHAPTER 69




We were back at City Hall thinking of how to proceed.

The idea of wandering around the city of Floloria, dragging a plasma bomb, searching for Kai’Un, was not very appealing.

Then I, of all people, had a technological breakthrough. Or at least an idea.

In the past, Delovoa and I had detected signals coming from Floloria. They weren’t the same ones as the hack, but we investigated anyway. When we did, we were attacked by the Rettosian clones. I was pushed through buildings and Delovoa got his legs broken.

That signal we detected had to be something, right? It wasn’t just clones listening to the radio.

If the hack was how Thad’s Friend got the information to create Kai’Un, then how did Kai’Un actually connect to Thaxmultaerea? Kai’Un was no good sitting on Floloria by himself. He had to visit the Dredel Led capital to actually vote and influence decisions.

Maybe that signal we detected the first time was Kai’Un connecting to Thaxmultaerea. Like what Cliston did when he took a vacation to his home city. Or what I did when I put on the Dredel Led helmet.

“It makes sense,” Delovoa said. “The signal was powerful. It takes very little bandwidth for Cliston to connect and very, very little bandwidth for a brain like Hank’s to connect. But a being like Kai’Un would need a tremendous signal to patch into Thaxmultaerea.”

“I have some slight familiarity with the specifications of Thaxmultaerea,” Cliston said. “I might be able to assist you in creating a scanner that could find the signal again.”

“And that should lead us to Kai’Un, right?” I asked.

“It seems reasonable,” Delovoa confirmed.

Delovoa was rigging a plasma warhead to be a bomb and modifying a scanner to pinpoint the location of Kai’Un’s signal.

I spent the time eating and sleeping, mostly.

I figured it was the best I could do to prepare. My legs still hurt from fighting the Agglatar. My shoulder hurt from ramming my way out of a battlecruiser. I probably suffered carbon dioxide poisoning swimming through space. And my eyebrows still weren’t full grown. They were too thick to draw on, and sparse enough that it looked like I had mange.

I also did some exercises with Gun.

I had Cliston stand with a rifle or pistol facing me, and I would try and get Gun to identify what part was Cliston and what part was the weapon he was carrying.

“I’m not especially comfortable with this, sir,” Cliston stated, while staring down at my chromium, talking handgun.

“He won’t shoot you. Will you, Gun?”

“I can’t predict the future. I don’t think,” he said.

I was concerned about the first time Delovoa and I had met the clones. They used repulsion rifles on us that flung me backwards and flung him upwards. Probably because of our differences in mass.

The weapons themselves hadn’t seemed to cause any damage, but getting pushed through a building or flung up into the latticework would be bad.

I was trying to train Gun to destroy the repulsion rifles before they could be used.



The next day we got Zzzho to fly Frank, Garm, Delovoa, Cliston, and me to Floloria.

As we walked down the street, Frank took point. He wore full body armor and carried an assortment of frightening weapons.

Then came Delovoa, monitoring the scanner that was tracking Kai’Un’s signal.

Garm held the left side, also wearing body armor and carrying two heavy pistols and probably a bunch of smaller blades.

Cliston kept an eye on the right. He was unarmed, but Cliston was extremely fast, extremely strong, and, knowing him, he probably wrote several books on hand-to-hand combat just for fun.

I was in the rear.

Pushing the bomb.

The bomb was typical Delovoa handiwork. The metal cover had been removed from the warhead and in its place, there was countless strips of tape, string, dodgy-looking mechanical devices, and I think some bent coat hangers.

“Couldn’t you at least find a cart that had four working wheels?” I asked.

I was pushing the bomb on a large dolly and two of the wheels stuttered and squeaked. Every time I hit a pebble or joint in the pavement, the whole thing would jerk to a halt and a plasma warhead almost fell to the ground.

“It’s the only one I had,” Delovoa replied. “Now be quiet.”

“How can I be quiet? Anyone can hear this cart from three blocks away,” I said. “Not to mention your stupid scanner.”

Delovoa had designed the scanner so that it blorped louder and more rapidly as we neared Kai’Un. So we had a perfect reminder of how close we were to danger.

It was also not exactly precise. We had to go down entire streets, wait for the sound to get louder or dimmer and then turn around and go another direction.

Blorp! Blorp!

“I swear, can you at least throw a towel on that thing? My nerves are frayed enough,” I said.

Garm shushed me.

“Oh, right. So now I’m the bad guy because I want a little peace and quiet as I push along ten megatons of joy over every bump and crack in this damn city.”

“Sir, your voice does carry quite a distance,” Cliston echoed.

“I’m sorry. Am I speaking too loud? It’s hard to hear over my imminent heart attack.”

Blorp! Blorp! Blorp! Blorp!

I was about to say something again, when Frank held up his arms and crossed his hands at the wrists. I wasn’t sure what that meant, but I supposed he wasn’t cheerleading for an invisible glocken team.

One by one, we crept forward to the corner of the building ahead and peeked around it.

The space station had been completely leveled at this point forward. There were no buildings whatsoever. In their place, there seemed to be an ocean of humming electronics. Every kind of capacitor, resistor, processor, adapter, module, circuit, battery, fuse, inverter, and an encyclopedia of things I had never seen. All of it connected by endless cords and cables and punctuated with millions of flashing, multi-colored lights.

“Do you think that’s Kai’Un, Cliston?” Garm asked.

“You bet your ass, ma’am,” he replied. Which was such an uncharacteristic statement it had to be true.

“I don’t see anyone, do you?” I asked.

“No, but I smell a lot of people,” Delovoa said. “Something’s around here.”

We moved as stealthily as a robot, two Ontakians, a mutant, and a Colmarian with backwards legs could move while pushing a squeaky trailer.

Which was not very stealthily.

“Where should we put this?” I asked Delovoa.

Delovoa looked at some of the electrical equipment with uncertainty. Compared to his jury-rigged bomb, a city-wide supercomputer was clearly beyond him.

“What are those raised areas over there?” Cliston asked.

Most of Kai’Un was relatively flat, the machinery at ground level. But in the distance were some taller portions maybe eight feet in height. Going on the assumption that bigger meant more important, we slowly made our way over.

“I know what those are,” I began.

“They’re cloning tubes!” Delovoa finished.

They were. Hundreds of cloning pods like we had seen in the past. They looked exactly like we had seen in the past because they were made by the same Rettosian scientist, Zydolium.

When we approached, we saw there were a handful of Rettosians standing among the pods. Only two had weapons, but I think they were the same repulsion rifles that had sent me spiraling across half the city.

“Hello,” Frank said to the clones.

It was clear they were clones, just of different ages. Their liquid Rettosian skin boiled and bubbled and streaked across their exposed faces, necks, and hands.

They began speaking to each other in Rettosian but took no other actions.

I put my hand on Gun.

“Gun. I might need you to shoot some weapons. Are you ready?” I asked.

“Will Cliston be holding them?” Gun replied.

“I told you. Sir,” Cliston chastised.

“So what do we do?” Garm asked. She was also tense, her hands by her pistols.

“We do what we’re here to do,” Frank said. “I say we prepare the You-Know-What and get out of here.”

“Is this a good spot, Cliston?” I asked.

“We aren’t at the exact center of Kai’Un, but if the electromagnetic field is as large as Delovoa believes, it should be sufficient,” he said.

“Alrighty, then. Delovoa?” I said. I stepped away from the plasma warhead and moved next to Frank.

Delovoa put down his scanner and began fiddling with the bomb.

“Do you think they can understand us?” I asked Frank.

“They can,” I heard a wheezy, amplified voice say.

Zydolium puttered along in his electronic wheelchair, passing between cloning pods.

“I see Delovoa has returned. Such determination,” Zydolium chuckled.

“I guess killing you once wasn’t enough,” Delovoa taunted.

“Silly man. You couldn’t possibly kill me. But I assume your feeble intellect can’t quite fathom that concept.”

“You’re the silly one!” Delovoa shouted. “This whole thing is silly. Big deal, you made a Dredel Led. It’s silly! I detected it with no problem.”

“Yes. No doubt you had the mighty Cliston’s help in that regard. I’ve read quite a lot about you, my friend. Your pamphlet on the interrelationship between galactic species I found extremely interesting—if incorrect,” Zydolium said.

“I wrote that many centuries ago,” Cliston replied humbly.

“And the…Adjunct Overwatch, as I believe you are called. Amusing that a member of the Navy power structure is here. I worked so well with your kind before.”

“Wardian Boshe is dead,” I said.

“Yes. Unfortunate. He was a vital resource. None of this would have been possible without him,” Zydolium said. “Is that—let me see if I can remember—Frank?”

Frank sniffed, but didn’t reply.

“I can’t say I’m surprised to see you here. I never fully trusted you Ontakians. A limited, but extremely resourceful species.”

We all stood there silently, facing off.

“Ehem. Do you know me?” I asked.

“No.”

“I’m Hank. I, uh, helped Frank. And Delovoa. And Cliston. I was there when we killed you last time.”

“Yes? What do you want?” he asked, mildly annoyed.

“Nothing. Just. Saying hi,” I said, feeling rather foolish.

“You look familiar,” he conceded. “I assume…you all want…to hear about…my plans?” he stated very slowly.

“Sure,” Garm said. She nodded to Delovoa so that he would continue work on the bomb.

“It seems…Mr. Boshe…learned of me…through the Historians. They compile…so very much…information.”

I whispered to Frank.

“Is he talking slow or is that warhead leaking radiation?” I asked.

Frank ignored me, interested in Zydolium’s story.

“Mr. Boshe felt…that his species…and new empire…The Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation…needed war…to keep itself intact. Without an external…enemy…it would grind itself…down…with bloat…and wastefulness. He was impressed…with my work…mutating the Belvaille…System. And asked…if I could help…start a war.”

“So you created Kai’Un,” I said, trying to speed this along.

Zydolium shrugged.

“We agreed…on the Dredel Led. An ancient enemy…of the Colmarians. But I needed…information… I tapped into…Thaxmultaerea…and monitored…their communications. I even…accessed…creation schematics. Protocols. Voting. Their whole…society.”

“That is sacred data!” Cliston blurted.

Zydolium smiled with his crusty lips.

“The Dredel Led…are fascinating. I do not believe…I uncovered…even one percent…of your species. However, I had…enough to…begin.”

He moved closer in his electronic chair and clearly saw Delovoa, who was frantically trying to set the timer on the bomb.

“With funding…from…Boshe…and the PCC…I hired…my Ontakians…to procure…materials. So that I might…construct…Kai’Un. It is not…truly…a Dredel Led. It is not…self-aware…at all. There were…errors. So many…corrections…I had to make. It was one…of the most…difficult tasks…I have ever…undertaken.”

I kicked at the electronics all along the road.

“So this is Kai’Un?” I asked.

Zydolium sat quietly for some time.

“Yes,” he said finally. “I told…Boshe…that Kai’Un…would eventually be…found out. It is not…a very convincing…Dredel Led…I admit. But war…has come…once again. And war…has a will…of its own.”

“Why are you talking so slow? Did you just have a stroke or something?” I asked.

“I am…stalling…for time. You moron.”





CHAPTER 70




There was a tremendous crunching noise and Frank called out.

“Behind us!”

I turned around to see a giant running toward our group.

It was a clone of Zydolium, liquid skin and all, but he must have been twenty-five feet tall.

We couldn’t fight that thing in addition to those repulsion rifles. I had to get rid of one or the other. I stepped forward, so that I was safely past Frank and Garm, and I pulled out Gun.

“Gun, shoot and destroy all their weapons,” I said.

“Okay. Bang! Bang!”

The clones carrying the weapons were suddenly carrying fragments of weapons. Their repulsion rifles had been sliced into pieces.

Zydolium looked startled and he began to speak. On one of our previous encounters, another clone of Zydolium had turned Gun against me. I wasn’t going to let that happen again.

“Gun, shoot to kill that old man in the wheelchair,” I said, pointing.

“Bang!”

Zydolium slumped in his chair and his liquid skin slowed and stopped.

“Yeah, maybe now you’ll remember me,” I shouted defiantly.

To his corpse.

Those handful of shots had really drained me of energy. However, I didn’t have long to contemplate my tiredness because I was suddenly airborne.

I felt the distinct presence of that old familiar friend of mine: unbearable pain. The giant had stormed up and punted me like a ball.

I touched down a moment later and went tumbling through a mass of electronics and cloning tubes, smashing it all into hi-tech confetti.

I came to rest face down, my nose pressed against some flashing and flickering circuit boards. It was at this time I decided I would take a quick breather. A little break.

I deserved it.

“Hank! Hank! Get the hell up,” I heard Garm yell from seemingly inside my brain.

“Just resting my eyes,” I slurred.

I got up, brushed off the broken electrical components, and took a look around.

The battle had certainly begun.

There were now dozens of Rettosian clones running around. Most were armed with wrenches, hammers, and more complicated tools, but a few carried firearms.

Garm was fighting them all. Despite their vastly superior numbers, and the fact some were in the prime of their lives, the Rettosian clones were still clones.

Clones of a scientist.

It was clear they had spent a lot of time studying mathematics and physics and not a lot of time studying martial arts or working out at the gym.

Garm flipped over one clone, kicked a second one in the face, and shot a third. All while she was in the air. They swung their weapons and fired their guns, but didn’t come close to hurting her.

Frank had it a bit harder, as he was squared off against the giant. But he unloaded a submachinegun into the ankle of the creature, causing it to squeal and stumble.

Delovoa was still by the bomb and Cliston was doing his best to protect the both of them. I could see Cliston didn’t know much about fighting, but he was fast and strong and made of metal. A clone came by, swung a baton, and it clanged harmlessly off Cliston’s skull. Cliston then reached out, grabbed the man by the arm, and twisted. The result was more than enough to discourage any further attempts for the time being.

Unfortunately, I didn’t think I could use Gun in this situation. Things were too chaotic and crowded and I didn’t know how I could describe my targets to Gun without jeopardizing my friends.

Frank seemed like he needed the most help so I hurried over to him, tromping through the electrical systems.

Frank sensed my approach—or heard me cursing as I tripped over Kai’Un.

“Attack his right ankle,” Frank yelled. “Let’s see if we can get this bastard limping!”

I didn’t have a weapon I could use, so I pulled out one of Frank’s belt pistols. I fired seven shots, hitting the enormous target only three times.

“Taxes and Tariffs,” Frank swore. “Don’t you know your right from your left?”

Frank fired at the giant’s other ankle.

“I thought you meant my right,” I said. Actually, I had just shot at the ankle closest to me and even then, I hadn’t been very accurate.

The giant reached down with his open palm and took a slap at us. Frank easily dodged to the side, but I stood there flat-footed and got swatted.

I only flew backward about five feet, but the impact was enough to daze me.

When I tried to stand up, the giant stepped on me. Then stepped on me again.

When he lifted for a third stomp, I actually stuck to the bottom of his foot.

Frank shot at him some more and managed to push the monster back.

As I dragged myself up, I realized this giant was the worst possible thing I could fight. I was big and strong and really, really slow. But I wasn’t big or strong compared to that giant. I was just an easy target because I couldn’t get out of the way.

I looked around for something to use as a weapon. Like, a lance. Something to keep it at a distance.

As I was gazing around, I saw the clones fall back and, amazingly, form themselves into a competent battle formation.

They had a leader.

He was a tall man with a brutish face. His arms were bare and he was incredibly muscular. He clearly wasn’t a Rettosian, because he didn’t have their colorful, liquid skin. He looked competent, aggressive, and extremely angry.

He barked out orders in Rettosian and gestured with his thick arms where everyone should go.

“That’s you!” Frank yelled.

At first I thought Frank was having an existential crisis of some kind. But then I saw what he meant:

It was me!

It was the me of like five centuries ago. A young Hank!

The Rettosians had bioengineered my species, the Ontakians. Zydolium had hinted that he personally had a part in that process.

Was that really me? Or some version of me? I always heard I was a “combat model” Ontakian. But was I really some template they stamped out on an assembly line? One of many?

It was eerie seeing myself. Man, I’ve gained a lot of weight since then.

And I used to have more hair.

My doppelganger glanced in my direction, but if he recognized his future self, he made no obvious reaction.

“Hank, I need help over here,” Garm said.

She stood her ground and was facing the clones alone. They were no longer a mishmash of disorganized geeks. They were a structured army.

“Coming,” I called to her.

I hurried over as best I could, bumbling through Kai’Un’s electronics.

“Walk on the street!” Garm yelled.

Oh, yeah.

I jumped over to the narrow road and zigzagged over to Garm.

“I’ll take the clones, you fight that guy,” I said to Garm.

“I’m not fighting your clone! You fight him. I’ll hold off the clones,” she replied.

“Alright. Follow my lead,” I said. “Yaaar!” I screamed, charging forward.

I stopped and looked back, seeing Garm remaining where she was.

“What?” she asked. “That’s not how I fight. Go do your thing.”

I didn’t have time to get annoyed as some of the clones began shooting me. They weren’t especially accurate, and the guns weren’t powerful. I got hit in the arm and leg. It was nothing compared to being stepped on by a giant.

The clones also swung at me with their various construction tools, but they did no damage. I think in some cases, I hurt them more than they hurt me, as the weapons rattled out of their hands.

But I was now confronted with…myself.

“Zeetso Bledono,” he said in Rettosian.

“Hi,” I replied, upbeat. “I know this may seem crazy, but I’m you. We’re Ontakians.”

I smiled.

Hank 2 then did the weirdest thing. He flipped forward, did a cartwheel, landed in a crouch, and grabbed me by the groin with one hand, and reached up and grabbed me by the neck with the other hand.

“Uh. What are you doing?” I asked.

He roared! Like a real, honest roar. Very different from the scream I made in my aborted charge over here. It sounded manly and powerful.

He then lifted me over his head.

I was like, I don’t know, two thousand pounds. Okay, more than that. A lot more. And he lifted me up and threw me.

It wasn’t a very big throw. It was more like a forward drop. But no one could deny the fact he had done a handstand flip and lifted me from the ground.

I wasn’t hurt. I was shocked.

From my position on the ground, I turned back to Garm.

“Did you see that?” I asked her. But she was busy doing her Quadrad assassin routine, dancing around kicking clone necks and breaking kneecaps.

I started to get up when Hank 2 hit me with a full-on haymaker punch. My head bounced off the road and left a sweat stain that perfectly outlined my features.

Man, this guy made me feel old.

I tried to rise again and he somehow did a running kick with both legs that sent me flipping over backward.

The blows I was taking hurt, but weren’t likely to cripple me anytime soon. The problem was, I hadn’t hit him once. I hadn’t even swung at him.

“Hey, give me a second to get to my feet,” I said.

But apparently, Hank 2 didn’t speak Colmarian, or didn’t understand sportsmanship.

He kicked my arm out from under me and then slammed his foot on the back of my neck.

I tried to cover myself with my arms but he reached in and jammed his thumb into my right eye, pressing and twisting.

“Ahh!” I screamed.

I flailed out with my arm to try and knock him away. He grabbed hold of my wrist. Then he grabbed me by my ankle.

Then he turned, turned, and I was flying. He was swinging me around like I was a little kid playing airplane.

Except he let me go.

Very much like an airplane, I flew across the landscape a short distance. I made an emergency landing somewhat near Delovoa and Cliston.

“Quit screwing around, Hank!” Garm yelled at me.

I took this moment to stand up and reevaluate things.

Garm looked like she had incapacitated or killed a half-dozen clones. But what seemed like a dozen had taken their place. We were surrounded by cloning tubes. Hundreds. If there were that many clones on this city, it was just a matter of time before they all converged here. Not even Garm could fight off that many angry scientists.

Frank was, surprisingly, doing okay against the giant. He would aim and take a measured shot at some vital part of his opponent. And while it was clearly painful, the giant wasn’t remotely in any danger of dying.

Frank was conserving his ammunition. Eventually, he was going to run out of guns and bullets and then he would be easily overmatched by the creature.

After tossing me around for a while, Hank 2 didn’t even look like he was winded. He was back to giving orders to the group of clones.

“So, uh, Delovoa. Do you think you can get this bomb working?” I asked.

“Now? It will kill us all!”

“You said the warhead doesn’t affect Ontakians,” I replied.

“Maybe. But if you hadn’t noticed, most of us here aren’t Ontakians. It would kill Cliston, too, in case you don’t care about me.”

“Set the bomb and we’ll all run away,” I said.

“The Rettosians might be able to disarm it, sir,” Cliston answered. I notice he had a few dents and scratch marks on his body case.

I wasn’t sure what to do. It seemed clear that we couldn’t win this. There were too many of them and they were too powerful.

Frank must have heard our conversation as he gave us some advice.

“Set the bomb. Hank and I will guard it. We’ll meet back at the ship if we survive.”

I could hardly believe he said it. A last stand. Was I ready to do that?

“Yeah. Okay. It’s for a worthy cause, right? Erasing Kai’Un. Ending the war. Killing Zydolium and his damn clones. And it won’t affect us.”

“Maybe, I said. You’ll be at ground zero,” Delovoa explained, and his sociopathic voice was filled with emotion. Which really let me know this was not something to be undertaken lightly.

But I noticed more clones exiting their tubes. They formed a thick mob and were forcing Garm to back up. The giant Rettosian punched at Frank and caught him on the shoulder, spinning him around like dice at a casino.

It was clear to me that we were going to lose this battle.

I turned to Delovoa and said with all seriousness:

“Sometimes the bad thing is the best thing.”

“What the hell does that mean?” he answered.

“Just set the bomb and get out of here. Don’t make it like four hours or anything, we won’t be able to hold off that long.”

“Two hours?” he asked.

I motioned around with my arms, in case Delovoa was blind.

“Make it like three minutes,” I said.

“I can’t run that fast. My legs are backwards,” he reminded me.

I went to the warhead, wrapped my arms around it, and set it on the ground. The squeaky cart was now empty.

“Cliston—ow, my back—Cliston, push Delovoa on the dolly,” I said.

“Yes, sir.”

“Did you hear any of that, Garm?” I called out.

Garm was out of bullets, she hadn’t brought as many guns as Frank. She did a feint rush forward, threw a handful of blades, and dropped some clones to the ground.

“Just give the signal,” she said anxiously.

“Hank, the clones can understand us,” Delovoa whispered. “They must know this is a bomb. They’re going to make for it at all costs.”

“I got it,” I said.

I pulled up my pants, sniffled a bit, damn, my nose was bleeding again. What was my problem?

I slowly walked back toward Hank 2 and the mass of clones. I took out Gun and held it ready at my side.

“Okay, go!” Delovoa yelled, and he hopped onto the dolly.

Cliston began pushing him at around fifteen miles an hour. The squeaking was so obnoxious it gave me goosebumps.

Garm withdrew, and ran to catch up to Delovoa and Cliston.

“You got five minutes,” Delovoa yelled.

Five minutes? I told him three.

There must have been about fifty clones now and they all smiled and began talking in their pompous Rettosian language as they slowly moved toward me.

“Yeah. See, Garm isn’t in the way anymore,” I explained. “Gun. Shoot, um, ten of those people. To kill.”

“Okay. Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang!”

Ten Rettosian scientists slumped to the ground. That wiped the smile clean off the rest of their faces.

The drain of my bioelectricity made me so weak that I went down on one knee and almost lost consciousness.

Okay. I’m not doing that again! I’ll save Gun as a last resort.

Hank 2 gave some commands and the Rettosian clones opened fire on me. I covered my face, but those guys had worse aim than I did.

Still, a number of bullets hit. Of course, I was bulletproof and the shots did no harm.

Hank 2 saw that and seemed confused.

“We’re the same guy,” I yelled to him. I pointed at him then back to me.

Hank 2 ran forward, and it was clear he wasn’t going to embrace me with brotherly love.

He was attempting a diving tackle. But he telegraphed the move ahead of time, so I raised my arms and turned my hips, and he merely bounced off of me.

You know, if I beat Hank 2, that will prove that I’m getting better with age. How often do you get a chance like this? To match skills against a younger, dumber version of yourself. I’ve accumulated centuries of experiences that this boy can’t even dream of.

If I win, it will show that maturity and wisdom triumph over strength and youth.

The clones rushed in to follow Hank 2, but they weren’t combat model Ontakians.

The first clone stuck a rifle in my face like he was going to pick my nose with it. I grabbed the barrel and pulled the weapon out of his hands.

“Now I got a gun,” I said to no one in particular.

I fired as fast as I could pull the trigger and hit several clones. I was literally surrounded by attackers and I somehow missed with a dozen shots. There simply had to be something wrong with me. No one could be this inaccurate.

Maybe my head was misaligned with my arms so I was always shooting in the wrong location. I’ve never been good with guns. Or darts. Or billiards. Or tossing dirty socks into a hamper.

“Hey, Frank, do I seem kind of cross-eyed to you?” I yelled at him.

“What?” he asked, right as the giant brought his fist down in an overhead slam and battered my uncle into the ground.

Hank 2 gave some new instructions to the clones and they rushed past me and headed straight for the bomb. They were going to try and disarm it.

I hurried over, caught two clones by the backs of their heads and bashed their brains together until they went limp.

Suddenly, a hand darted out and grabbed me around the throat.

“Hank 2,” I gurgled.

I tried to punch him several times, but I was too slow to get any momentum behind it, and my feeble blows did nothing.

No, don’t try and fight his game. Use my brain. He had me by the throat, but I had him by the hand.

I wasn’t just a combat model Ontakian. I was a mutant combat model Ontakian.

I took hold of his wrist with both hands and started walking backwards. My idea was to drag him around by his arm. He didn’t let go and kept choking me.

As my face turned blue, I realized this was a rather stupid idea. Hank 2 walked faster than me and could hop over and around all the things I was tripping on.

I pulled him close and then I pushed him as hard as I could. That at least got me free of him, as he fell over backwards.

The clones were huddled around the bomb again.

I kicked and swung and shooed them away. Was it five minutes yet? It felt like five hours. I had to hope that Delovoa, of all people, had set the bomb right. What if he had screwed up? What if it was fifty minutes?

One of the clones shot me with a pistol, but I broke his arm and took the gun from him.

Hank 2 jumped up and was about to slug me again when I shot him twice in the stomach and three times in the empty space around him.

If I lived, I was definitely going to take a marksmanship class.

Hank 2 winced at the shots, but was undeterred. I quickly held up my hand for him to stop.

Amazingly, he did.

I took the pistol and shot myself in the stomach.

“See? We’re the same. We’re both Ontakians. We don’t have to fight,” I explained.

Hank 2 actually snorted with laughter and then punched me in the jaw.

The blow knocked two of my teeth loose. I instinctively covered my mouth so he wouldn’t knock them clean out. I could regrow teeth, but it took a long while, and it made eating difficult in the meantime.

Right.

You know, if Hank 2 and I are evenly matched, that will show there are pros and cons to getting older. Sure, I have more intelligence and skill, but there’s no denying the stamina and enthusiasm of youth.

Hank 2 had learned that I was a lot heavier than him, so he wasn’t going to wrestle with me.

He planted a roundhouse kick to my knee, rocketed me with an uppercut under my chin, gave me a wicked kidney shot, and then kneed me in the groin.

I’m not sure, but I think all this happened in about one second. My body didn’t even have time to register pain from one hit before I was getting hit again.

I felt this was not the path to success.

“Frank,” I said, my mouth swollen, “we got to do something else.”

Frank went hurtling through the air and landed not far from me. He looked bad. Worse than I felt. His body armor was torn away like it had been made out of soft cheese. His face was pouring blood like a punch bowl that had cracked in a thousand places. When he tried to stand up, his legs were as weak as uncooked sausages.

“Man, I’m hungry,” I said. “All my analogies are food.”

Hank 2 was not sympathetic, and kicked me over and over in the face and torso as I was bent over on the ground, spitting blood.

“Stupid kid probably going to break his foot,” I laughed, as my two loose teeth fell out.

Frank was punch drunk and dazed. He shook his head and blinked his eyes rapidly, trying to regain focus.

“The bomb,” he said.

Those damn clones were back, and they had their tools out this time.

With great effort, I climbed to my feet and Hank 2 punched the back of my head. The blow sent me wobbling to the bomb and I collapsed on the clone nearest the controls. His bones crunched beneath my weight.

“One down,” I said.

I grabbed hold of the bomb and lifted it up, using my back instead of my knees, because my knees were shot.

“What are you doing?” Frank asked.

“I don’t know.”

“Run,” he said.

Yeah. They can’t disarm it if I’m holding it.

I made like a glocken puffer, put my head down, and took off. I wasn’t going very fast because I was running over clones, kicking through Kai’Un, and the warhead was heavy.

As I teetered dangerously with an armful of Massively Enhanced Plasma Ordnance, I felt things might be okay. I just had to outrun the timer.

Frank took up the role as a glocken wedge and chopped, hacked, and otherwise maimed the clones chasing after me.

I even saw him get a great shot at Hank 2 and knock him down from behind.

We should have done this from the start: run around in circles carrying a city-killing plasma bomb.

But the good times didn’t last very long.

It was Hank 2. I swear, that guy just didn’t give up!

He swept out my legs and caused me to fall, dropping the warhead.

When Frank tried to intervene, Hank 2 did a one-two-three combination punch and before he hit the ground, I saw Frank was unconscious. I think the shockwave from Hank 2’s fists were enough to break some windows a few blocks over.

I covered the bomb with my body.

Hank 2 was not impressed with my efforts. He clutched and twisted my head until I finally let go. He then dragged me away by my feet, kicked me twice in the face, and then walked back to the bomb.

Okay. So, I lost to my younger self.

Of course someone a tenth my age was going to kick my ass. It’s not like we’re debating. He was physically ramming his fists into my nose. That’s not something you get better at as you get older.

Hank 2 waved for the scientist clones to come over and work on the bomb.

I stood, fell down, then stood up again.

“Hey,” I yelled boldly. “Do you want to fight or—” and that was it. I had nothing clever left to say. It had been beaten out of me. It was all I could do not to swallow my tongue.

Hank 2’s brow furrowed as he looked at me.

I wanted to see some sign that he was hurt. Or tired. Or had a sore throat. Anything.

But he walked past the Rettosian clones and stepped forward with the clear intention of making my life a lot shorter.

Killed by my youth in old age. I guess that was something.

However.

You would think that being thirty feet away from a detonating Massive Enhanced Plasma Ordnance bomb would be a really bad thing.

But it was just light.

A lot of light!

Pure white. Like the universe had been erased and nothing was left but a blank piece of paper.

There wasn’t even a sound.

No smells. No burnt flesh. No smoldering electronics.

Just a flash and then I was blind.

I stood there waiting.

For what, I’m not sure. An explosion? Death?

After a while of absolutely nothing dramatic happening, my stomach grumbled.

I rubbed at my eyes to try and restore my vision.

Shadows begin to slowly appear in the whiteness.

A form here and there.

They were all dead. The clones. The giant. Kai’Un.

Actually, I didn’t know if Kai’Un was “dead.” It didn’t do anything like groan or gurgle up some vacuum tubes. It still looked like a massive electronic computer that stretched away for blocks and blocks. But all its glowing, bleeping, colored lights were now dark.

“Frank. Frank,” I said.

Frank was curled in an unnatural position, but I could see his chest rising and falling.

As for Hank 2, I guess in the end, age and wisdom triumphed. And teamwork. Teamwork was a key—

Wham!

Hank 2 punched me full-on in the gut, doubling me over.

“Come on!” I gasped.

He lifted my head to get a better angle and then smashed me across the cheek.

“Everyone is dead! Your computer is broken. There’s no reason to fight me!” I implored. “I won. Your boss is gone.”

Punch. Kick. Throw.

This was like the…dumbassedness of youth. Had I been that stubborn when I was his age?

Now that everything was done and finished, I really, truly didn’t want to die. It would be pointless now.

I still had Gun. I pulled it out and pointed.

“Gun! Shoot that guy to kill. Give it everything you got!”

Nothing.

No hello. No bang. No questions.

The electromagnetic pulse! It may have fried Gun.

I knew what I had to do. Sort of. I turned and ran. Fight or flight instinct had kicked in and I was practically flapping my arms to try and get away.

I couldn’t beat my younger self in a fight. He had proven that beyond a doubt in those soul-crushing five minutes.

Of course, he caught up to me. Tackled me.

I pushed him off, got up, and started running again.

Hank 2 could beat the everloving crap out of me if I stood still and fought. Like when I was protecting the bomb.

But I was a moving target now.

Admittedly, I wasn’t moving very fast. Still, it was hard to run after someone and punch them with much force.

He tried, however.

I was battered, bludgeoned, wailed on. I suffered contusions, sprains, bruises, cuts, and concussions.

I was merely prolonging the inevitable because I couldn’t outrun him and I couldn’t outfight him.

Earlier, I had thought of my prophesy. The one the Boranjame had told me.

Was it a good thing to know how I would die? If I ever found myself in dire circumstances, if they didn’t match the prophesy, then it couldn’t possibly be fatal.

Could it?

Were the Boranjame lying to me?

In any case, the prophesy gave me an idea.

After running for what felt like hours, I finally reached the edge of the port.

Hank 2 tackled me for the one millionth time.

“Hank?” I heard Garm ask.

The whole gang was there. Delovoa. Cliston. Garm.

“We saw the flash,” Delovoa began. “Do you need help?”

I struggled to my feet as my younger self grappled with me.

“Call Zzzho. Tell him to get the Suckface ready for takeoff. Now!”

I pushed off Hank 2 and ran past them.

It was a quick few blocks to reach the Suckface, but the port was crammed full of useful weapons for Hank 2 to use.

He threw boxes at me. Whacked me with a crowbar. He even tried to push over a heavy lifter on me, but it barely missed.

I hopped on board the Suckface followed closely by my twin.

“Hank?” Zzzho asked over the intercom.

“Take off! Now!”

I was now crammed inside my rather small spaceship with Hank 2. I couldn’t escape him.

He took full advantage and punched and kicked at me until I curled up in a ball on the floor. We obviously hadn’t strapped ourselves in, so the inertia of departure from Floloria made us slide down the floor.

The ship was now in space.

The place where my prophesy said I would die. I felt like, this could really be it. I had forced this situation. If I died, it would be my own fault.

My younger self regained his footing, picked me up, and threw me the length of the Suckface, even with the artificial gravity on.

I landed in the aft of the ship and I reached into the storage compartment and grabbed something.

Then I put my head down and ran forward, ramming Hank 2 and pushing him backwards due to my mass.

He didn’t mind. He kneed me repeatedly in the face.

But I had done what I wanted, and moved us to the front of the ship.

I reached out, punched five buttons on the wall and pulled a lever up, then down, then up again.

Hank 2 looked at me confused.

“That’s right. Eat suck, suckface,” I said.

He replied with a heavy accent.

“No, you.”

Could Hank 2 speak Colmarian? Had he understood me this whole time? It so startled me that I almost didn’t hit the glowing red plunger.

But my arm was already in motion.

The airlock slammed open and then woosh!

We were sucked into outer space.

Hank 2 held onto me with a few fingers but I swiped at him and broke his grip.

I did my best to remain calm despite the unbearable surroundings.

When Hank 2 kicked me to the rear of the ship, I had grabbed something from the storage compartment. This object was now my only hope.

I took hold of the two handles, depressed the buttons with my thumbs, and I was instantly encased in an emergency pressure suit.

I hadn’t been sure if they worked while actually in space, but the fact I could breathe and wasn’t dying a horrible death, proved that they did.

Hank 2, on the other hand, was not so fortunate.

He was only about ten feet away from me now. Clasping and clawing and…dying.

I couldn’t see well out of the colorized bubble helmet, but I watched a younger version of me die.

Betrayed and murdered by my best friend—me. Unloved, my corpse deserted in the coldness of space, where memory of me would swiftly become less substantial than the faded light of a long-dead star.

That was my prophesy.

Had it ever truly been about me? Or had it been that Hank?

Had the Boranjame foreseen that I would get in this fight and need those words to escape?

I don’t know.

But Hank was deserted in the coldness of space. Hank 2 at least.

Zzzho turned the ship around for me.





CHAPTER 71




Two weeks later, I invited Garm back to my apartment in City Hall.

“The Dredel Led are taking a wait-and-see approach to the war, sir,” Cliston explained. He had just returned from another visit to Thaxmultaerea.

“That may be true, but the PCC have the war on the books and are allocating funds to the effort. I assume that means we’re still at war,” Garm said.

“All that work for nothing?” I asked.

“Sir, you destroyed Kai’Un. He was a corrupting and unnatural influence on my people. Merely a puppet of Zydolium and Wardian Boshe.”

“Well, Boshe is dead for sure. Hopefully, we killed all of Zydolium’s clones.”

“MTB hired two new police officers and they are patrolling Floloria,” Garm said.

“Two beat cops walking around a city isn’t much. But I guess we did drop a plasma warhead on everyone. I didn’t see anyone alive after that. The warhead even broke Gun,” I said.

“So you don’t have a talking, philosophical pistol?” Garm asked.

“Delovoa said it might restore itself with time. But I can’t see how.”

“Why are you still carrying it?” Garm asked, pointing to Gun in my holster.

“I’ve bragged about my talking, never-missing handgun for years. No one else knows it’s broken,” I explained.

“How is your uncle?” Garm asked.

“Frank? He busted something like twelve different bones. He doesn’t heal nearly as fast as I do, but I suspect he’ll be fine. He wants me to pay his hospital bills.”

“Speaking of which, when I was on Thaxmultaerea, I inquired about the fifty million credits for ending the hack,” Cliston said.

“And?”

“I’m afraid we won’t be getting paid. They said the war nullified all existing contracts with citizens of the Post-Colmarian Confederation Colmarian Confederation.”

“I’m not a citizen!”

“Unfortunately, they don’t see it like that, sir.”

“The Agglatar would have probably come by and taken all my money, anyway.”

“Do you know what happened to him, sir? He depleted nearly all of our cash reserves.”

“I’m hoping he bought a one-way ticket to wherever Thad Elon is. There’s no use hanging around Belvaille. Everyone here is poor and Thad Elon is long gone.”

“You think the Boranjame created the Agglatar?” Garm asked.

“Yeah. From what I understand, the Boranjame can’t like, directly interfere in things,” I said.

“But they strip mine entire solar systems. Populated solar systems,” Garm replied.

“Yeah. That’s a Boranjame being ‘indirect.’ I think the Agglatar is the same thing. They created something to fight Thad Elon on their behalf…but they screwed it up. They seem to do that a lot.”

“I have difficulty believing the very blunt Agglatar could ever defeat the very subtle Thad Elon,” Cliston observed.

“Thad Elon can’t be defeated. He’s going to kill all life in the galaxy, eventually.” I shrugged. “But hopefully we’ll all die of natural causes long before that. So how about my legal status?” I asked Garm.

“You mean for murdering the Joint High Wardian and Marshall of the South-by-Southwest Region?” she asked.

“Yes.”

“You’re a wanted criminal,” she said.

“Even though Wardian Boshe broke the law? He started a war!” I said.

“But he was never tried for it. As far as the Navy is concerned, you killed an extremely important governmental employee.”

“Does the PCC have a most wanted list?” I asked.

“Yeah. It has 53,814 names on it,” she said.

“That’s an oddball number.”

“It’s an oddball government.”

“How high am I on the list?” I asked.

“You’re not on it. Maybe on the next cycle they’ll add you, but the list has people accused of genocide and destroying entire continents. You simply murdered one man.”

“That sucks. I don’t even get any notoriety out of it.”

“No, but they’re still looking for you. I can’t be seen with you in public and you had better stay away from any PCC facilities,” Garm said.

I stood quietly for a moment.

“This has to be the worst outcome of any set of missions I’ve ever been on,” I said.

“Didn’t you break your prophesy, though? You found out that it wasn’t you who was destined to be betrayed and die out in space.”

“Who knows? That was crazy Boranjame talk. I mean, I’m going to die sometime, right? If it’s not out in the coldness of space it will be in the warmth of some bomb Delovoa created or in the stinky palms of some monster intent on destroying the city.”

“So you giving up now?” Garm asked.

“No. But…can’t I complain for a little while? I lost all my money. My girlfriend was murdered. My talking gun is defective. And I’m a wanted criminal in a civilization I’m not even a part of.”

“You still have me, sir,” Cliston said.

“Yeah, I got you, Cliston. And honestly. Sincerely. I’m very happy about that.”

“And I don’t hate you,” Garm added.

“No, you’re a bundle of laughs, Garm. So, what are your plans?” I asked.

“If there’s one thing the Dredel Led hack showed me it’s that the telescopes have a lot of extra capacity we aren’t using.”

“You going to hack some other species?”

“No. Those telescopes can communicate across the entire galaxy and we use them as glorified traffic lights. I’m going to sell bandwidth on them.”

“Bandwidth for what?”

“For whatever and to whomever will pay for it,” she replied. “What about you? You got a spaceship. You going to stick around Belvaille?”

“Yeah, I like it here. I know this city so well. Even when it changes. You could blindfold me and I would still know my way around. But with my criminal status, I’m not sure if I can keep working on the Skim. Which is bad news, because I owe people a lot of money.”

“What will you do, then?” Garm asked.

“I think I might go back into the private sector,” I said. “Private investigations.”





