HARD LUCK HANK



FRANKLY



by

Steven Campbell





web page: http://www.belvaille.com

http://www.hardluckhank.com



audiobooks: https://www.audible.com/stevencampbell



facebook: http://www.facebook.com/hardluckhank



patreon: https://www.patreon.com/stevencampbell



cover art by Steven Campbell



proofreading by http://lectorsbooks.com/editing





All images and content Copyright © 2021 Steven Campbell

All rights reserved.





Web links may incur a data charge, may not be available at future dates, and are subject to change.





TABLE OF CONTENTS



CHAPTER 1

Uncleless

CHAPTER 2

The Morgue

CHAPTER 3

A Moment to Reflect

CHAPTER 4

Breaking and Exiting

CHAPTER 5

Bad, Bad Guys

CHAPTER 6

Home Again, Home Again, Jiggity Jig

CHAPTER 7

Brains

CHAPTER 8

The Formerly Known Club

CHAPTER 9

I Spy

CHAPTER 10

Earthquake With an Attitude

CHAPTER 11

Back to Reality

CHAPTER 12

Escape

CHAPTER 13

Oh, Noze

CHAPTER 14

Small Business

CHAPTER 15

Gods Amongst Us

CHAPTER 16

The Plan

CHAPTER 17

War

CHAPTER 18

High-Cost Savior

CHAPTER 19

Camping

CHAPTER 20

New Town

CHAPTER 21

Unspeakable

CHAPTER 22

Halls of Injustice

CHAPTER 23

Garm in the Sky

CHAPTER 24

Where in the World is Carshane Mactel?

CHAPTER 25

Gax

CHAPTER 26

Home





CHAPTER 1


Uncleless



My life has been a lot happier ever since my uncle was brutally murdered.

You wouldn’t think a little thing like that would have such a big impact, but it did. It was like a huge, uncle-sized weight had been lifted from my shoulders. I hadn’t even realized how much stress I had been under until his grisly execution caused it all to miraculously evaporate.

Now that he was gone, my entire outlook and perspective had improved. My uncle Frank’s execution was simply the best thing to happen to me in decades.

The only drawbacks or negativity whatsoever originated from other people. All the endless condolences. “So sorry.” “Hang in there.” “I’m here if you need me, buddy.” And the well-meaning inquiries about who might have been the culprit.

“Who did it and what will you do to them?” everyone asked me.

“I don’t care and nothing,” I replied.

And suddenly I was the bad guy because I didn’t know who killed my uncle and I had no interest in avenging him. And when I say I was the bad guy, that wasn’t figurative. I lived among bad guys. I worked with them. The space station Belvaille is a criminal haven. When bad guys think you’re the bad guy that’s really bad. It puts your life in jeopardy.

I liked my new life and didn’t want to lose it. My uncle’s last screw-you to me was to make me responsible for finding out who killed him when I didn’t have the slightest interest.

Look, I know this sounds terrible and insensitive. But my uncle was terrible and insensitive.

My uncle was just like me: an Ontakian. We are a bioengineered, former slave species. We were meant to do the heavy lifting, fighting, and every other grubby activity that the pompous Rettosian empire didn’t feel like doing. Our species rebelled and won our freedom.

There aren’t many Ontakians left. Our home world was destroyed in a fit of jealous stupidity by the Colmarian Confederation. I thought I was an orphan for my entire life. Then my uncle abruptly appeared and hinted details about my parents and life before our race was virtually annihilated.

But it was never more than hints. With a heaping dose of contradictions and flat-out lies.

My uncle Frank was a scumbag. And I don’t mean like most uncles where he borrows money and gets drunk and throws up on your new carpet while hitting on your wife. My uncle directly got me shot at least a thousand times.

A thousand. Not an exaggeration. One thousand bullets hit me that would not have otherwise if I had remained without family.

Frank personally shot me on at least a dozen separate occasions. One time with a grenade launcher.

I must have spent a collective year in the hospital because of my uncle. He caused me to lose money, lose prestige, lose sleep, and lose everything that was possible to physically, mentally, or emotionally lose.

I’m happy he’s dead. There, I said it. Or thought it, anyway.

“Oh, what a terrible nephew I am.” If I was so bad—hell, even if I wasn’t so good—I would have personally murdered my uncle after any one of the million or so occasions when he screwed me over.

But I didn’t. Because he was the only family I had left. And even though he was the dirtiest asshole in a city full of stinking butts, I couldn’t bring myself to off him.

And he knew that and endlessly took advantage of it.

My uncle Frank had been popular. Extremely. Crooks loved him—as much as criminals could love anything.

There weren’t a lot of codes of ethics that existed on Belvaille. But apparently, not giving a crap about your loser uncle’s death was one code that simply couldn’t be broken without repercussions.

I have no idea why everyone was so infatuated with him and why they were so adamant I care that he was gone.



“Because all the little cutthroats and pickpockets looked up to Frank. They wanted to be him. Because Frank was just like you. Except he had no morals,” Garm said.

Garm was the Adjunct Overwatch on the city. A smart, sexy, dangerous woman who I had dated once. She was the liaison between the civilian space station and the Navy. Kind of like the mayor. She was also the most corrupt person I knew. But at least she was honest about it.

“I don’t have morals. Not a lot, anyway,” I said. Trying to hint to Garm that it had been a while since I dated anyone. She ignored the hint.

We were speaking in her official office. It was a nondescript, boring set of rooms in a boring building, on a boring street. But it was just a front. Garm took a cut from every dirty scam and scheme that went on in Belvaille. She was fantastically wealthy.

“Who are you kidding, Hank? You’re the law enforcement on Belvaille,” Garm said.

“Me? A cop? I’ve never had an honest job in my life. I set up, or broker, half the rackets on the space station,” I said.

“Not anywhere near half.”

“MTB is law enforcement,” I said, speaking of my grizzly friend, who was head of the police department.

“MTB is a beat cop. He keeps traffic flowing and prevents people from stealing the plumbing and finds missing children, but he knows to keep his face out of the actual criminal world. He’d get murdered in a second. He lets you deal with the crooks.”

“You’re more of a cop than me. You actually work for the Navy,” I said.

“I also don’t mess with criminals. Not because I’m scared, but because they’re odious assholes not worth my time. As for the Navy, I merely keep them from slaughtering everyone here. Without me, they would scour this city with napalm, bleach, and then napalm again just to be sure.”

“But why are you saying I’m law enforcement?” I asked.

“Because you’re a three-ton, bully. You’re bulletproof, fireproof, rocketproof. Thad Elon, the closest thing we have to a galactic god and savior, has personally tried to kill you on multiple times and failed.”

“I’m not three tons,” I objected. “I’m a mutant.”

“Yeah, a fat mutant. That’s not muscle,” she said, pointing accusingly at my midsection.

“The fat jokes stopped being funny about 300 years ago,” I replied.

“It’s not supposed to be funny. You haven’t gotten less fat in 300 years. When the crew chief was building my back staircase, he bragged about how each step could hold 2000 pounds without flexing. I said that wasn’t enough. Because at least once a week, a neutron star was going to pound those stairs eating more food than a small country could process in a month,” Garm said.

“It was just a sandwich,” I said, rolling my eyes.

Garm rushed to her desk. Garm was also a mutant. She didn’t sleep. She was hyperkinetic all the time. Like someone on amphetamines—but not twitchy or erratic. She was like a normal person, sped up 40%.

“I have the surveillance videos. Look! That sandwich is bigger than me. One flight of stairs,” she said, fast-forwarding the video. “Poof. It’s gone. How is it even possible to eat that much, that fast?”

“Are you my dietician now?” I asked.

“If you have one, he should be shot. Cliston feeds you too much,” she said of my robotic butler.

“No, he doesn’t. He chastises me all the time for my eating habits. I have to sneak food on the side.”

“You’re hardly sneaking. You’re probably the direct cause of starvation across half the galaxy,” she said.

“Anyway. What’s this have to do with me being the law? Belvaille doesn’t have laws,” I said.

“No, it has you. The Blubbery Justice. That is why people resent you and idolized Frank.”

“That doesn’t make any sense. I’ve never arrested anyone.”

“You make deals on a criminal space station,” she said.

“So? They’re illegal deals. How does that mean I’m a cop when I break the law same as everyone else?”

“Because, you come in and force everyone to agree and play fair.”

“Yeah, that’s my job. That’s what people pay me to do. It beats having a gang war every other week,” I said.

“I know that, Hank. And they know that—if they’re being honest. But if criminals wanted life to be fair, they wouldn’t be criminals. You’re hired by one group. And you waddle up, eating your life-sized sandwich—”

“Okay, okay,” I interrupted.

“And you say, ‘You get 40% and you get 30% and you get 30%,’” she continued.

“So?”

“Well, they don’t want 30%. They want it all. But because you’re there, they can’t do anything about it. What are they going to do, shoot you? Steal your pants? You make the rules. And if you didn’t notice, crooks hate rules.”

“And Frank didn’t do rules?” I asked.

“No, he didn’t. When I wanted a job done—a dirty job—and didn’t want anyone asking questions or arguing or dragging their feet, I hired Frank.”

“Instead of me?”

“I love you, Hank—as a friend,” she added, when she saw me perk up. “There’s no villain I’d rather work with. But you’re the laziest person in the galaxy. You complain more than a senior citizen being dragged off to a nursing home. And I have no choice but to put up with it the same as anyone else.”

“What jobs did you hire my uncle for?” I asked.

“See? You’re complaining about jobs that aren’t even yours. Frank would murder a school bus full of children and steal all their lunch money if that was the assignment. I had hired him, recently, for a number of extremely important tasks. So I consider it very important you find out who killed him. If it wasn’t you.”

“Me? You’re asking if I killed Frank?”

“Yeah, you. Don’t act innocent. Did you do it?” Garm asked.

“No. Is that what everyone thinks? I killed my own uncle?”

“Yes. But you can’t lie worth a damn, so I know you’re telling the truth.”

“I can lie,” I said, still upset Garm valued Frank’s depravity more than my own.

“No, you can’t. You never learned to do all sorts of things because you never had to. You can tell someone to their face they are ugly and stupid and they can’t do anything about it other than throw themselves under your feet to bloody up your shoes.”

“I don’t wear shoes. They never last,” I said.

“It’s a figure of…forget it. So, you going to find out who killed Frank?” Garm asked.

“I really don’t care. Whoever it was did me a favor.”

“I understand that. But I need to know how my jobs went and if he was compromised. This is important. Not that finding your uncle’s killers isn’t important.”

“How did you know it was plural killers? Did you kill Frank?” I asked.

“No. But it was more than one person because Frank could beat both you and I together in a fight. One person wasn’t going to take him out unless it was a Boranjame—and they don’t exactly go around shooting people,” Garm explained.

“No, they just destroy whole planets if they don’t like someone,” I agreed.

“Belvaille is going to grow very uncomfortable for you if you don’t find out who killed Frank.”

“Is that a threat?” I asked.

“No, dummy, it’s a fact. I’ve had three separate groups come to me and ask permission to kill you.”

“What? When?” I asked.

“Recently. When you showed no interest in the murder of your one and only family member.”

“Was Frank that popular? Okay, so people wanted to grow up to be little tiny Franks. But why does anyone care that I don’t care?”

“The only two people in this entire sector who could overrule your decisions were me and Frank. I’m not going to do it because then I’ll have to deal with a sulky Hank for six months messing up every job that gets near you. They had to use your uncle as a counter.”

“You’re saying Frank worked against me?” I asked, surprised.

“It’s amazing you don’t understand this. You’re the most plugged-in crook on Belvaille. How is this news to you? Why do you think you two were constantly fighting with each other?”

“I just thought he was a jerk.”

“People were hiring him to, you know, get a second opinion. No one else could stand up to you—not when you dug in your feet.”

“So people think this is a power grab? That I murdered Frank to consolidate my influence? Like this is some medieval feudal kingdom?” I asked incredulously.

“Belvaille is exactly like a medieval feudal kingdom. And yeah, that’s what they think. You stick your fingers into every issue on the city—except the death of your uncle. That’s suspicious.”

“What did you tell the people who wanted to kill me?” I asked.

“I said hold off and see what you do about Frank. I need to know who killed him. And Frank was working all sorts of jobs for all sorts of people. Everyone wants to know,” Garm said.

“It’s usually not hard to figure out who murdered who on Belvaille. It’s a ten-mile city in space. What are there, 20,000 people here?” I asked.

“253,828,” she corrected. “But if it’s not hard, you shouldn’t have a problem, right?”

“I was hoping I could look at the surveillance tapes you have,” I said. “Maybe the guy or guys or gender-neutral aliens that rubbed him out will be seen.”

“Remember when you knocked out the city’s security systems because you were concerned the Navy was going to start cracking down on known felons and you’re all known felons?” Garm asked.

“Yeah.”

She threw up her arms as if she shouldn’t have to explain the rest.

“That was like five years ago! You haven’t fixed it since then? What kind of city you running here, Garm?” I asked.

“I’m running a city where I don’t want to keep fixing cameras you keep breaking. And it was less than seven months ago.”

“Oh. Feels like longer. I guess I’ll just have to do it the hard way,” I sighed. “Didn’t want to pay my last respects—because I didn’t respect Frank—but I suppose I’ll have to visit the coroner.”





CHAPTER 2


The Morgue



I left Garm’s fake office feeling far worse than when I had arrived.

She had not only confirmed that uncovering Frank’s death was of particular concern to the lowlifes of Belvaille, but she herself had a vested interest. She wouldn’t give me any details of the work my uncle was doing for her, but she had stated quite clearly that I had to get to the bottom of it.

Garm and I had been through a lot together. We’d had a mutually beneficial arrangement for centuries--though she always benefited far more. It was highly unusual for Garm to be circumspect with me.

She was hiding something. Not only that, but I got the sense she was afraid.

Garm was not only the richest person on the space station—by far—she was also a respected officer in the Colmarian Navy, and a high-ranking member of the secretive Quadrad assassins.

If Garm was scared, we should all be scared.



It could be said that I was not a good driver.

As a mutant, my skin was quite thick and I didn’t have a very good sense of touch. And I was far stronger than average, so I tended to rip off steering wheels and punch my feet through floorboards.

When I drove cars, I often crashed into buildings, other cars, and people. Finally, the crooks of the city demanded the authorities take action against the clear and present danger of me operating a vehicle. Police Chief MTB had therefore forbidden me to drive. He would actually shoot out the tires of any vehicle I got in the front seat of.

I called for a taxi to pick me up from Garm’s. Because of my girth only a few special cars could drive me and I had to stand around waiting.

A man walked up to me wearing only a few strips of clothing. His body looked like it was a clear green plastic and you could actually see his organs and veins and such just underneath.

“Hey, Hank,” the man said.

“Hi, Mozza,” I replied, dipping my chin slightly. Nodding was part of the universal language of tough guys.

“I’m here about—brrr—Frank’s juice,” Mozza continued.

He had to periodically loosen his jaw to speak. His species had not evolved with the ability to enunciate the Colmarian language and their mouths tended to lock up. So every now and then it sounded like he was growling as he vibrated his face to get it unstuck. It was a good affectation for a criminal to have, unless you knew the reason behind it.

“Frank’s what?”

“His debt,” Mozza said, looking around anxiously. Or I interpreted it to be anxious. His facial features didn’t move much and he was see-through.

“Frank’s dead, buddy.”

“I know. And—brrr—my condoles-sanses,” he added, fumbling over the words to be polite.

“Dead people don’t have debts,” I said, wondering where my taxi was.

“My bosses figure you’re the next of kin. So—brrr—you get his debt,” Mozza said.

“Pah!” I laughed. “It’s not a contagious disease.”

“Well, you get his inheritance, right?”

“Inheritance? What are we, rich…rich people? Living in some rich place? I didn’t get nothing,” I said.

“Frank didn’t leave—brrr—you anything?”

“How would I get it? If he had stuff in banks, how would I ever know? I wasn’t his bookkeeper. Out of curiosity—and nothing else—how much did he owe?” I asked.

“2.5” he said.

“2.5 pillows? 2.5 shoelaces? Are we doing a guessing game, Mozza?”

“2.5 million.”

“Credits?” I asked, confused.

“Yeah.”

“Colmarian credits?”

“What other—brrr—kind are there?” Mozza asked, irritated.

My jaw dropped. That was a truly fantastic amount of money. No wonder they were searching the galaxy for someone to pick up the tab.

“How could anyone give Frank that much?” I asked.

“It was a constor-tium—brrr—conflortium?” Mozza attempted.

“Yeah, that last one,” I said sagely.

“A conflortium of bosses loaned him the money. And they sent me to—brrr—collect,” he said.

I shook my head at the idea. I wasn’t afraid of Mozza. He wasn’t muscle. He was cheap plastic. And if he was muscle, I still wouldn’t be frightened of him. But then I remembered:

“Hey! I told you not to take this job. I warned you that being a loan shark was the worst occupation on Belvaille.”

“I know,” Mozza said, lowering his head.

“This is always what happens. Loan sharking only works with normal folks. Belvaille is nothing but crooks—just about. You break someone’s legs, how they going to repay you? Not only are they in debt to you, unable to work, but they’re in debt to the hospital. And the hospital mad at you is far scarier than any thug,” I said.

“I know. But I needed work and I’ve only been doing this for three months. I figure I—brrr—can walk off in four more and not hurt my résumé,” he said.

“2.5 million is ridiculous. No one has that kind of money. No one! Garm does. But she doesn’t count.”

“You think Garm could pay his debt?” Mozza asked.

“Don’t be stupid. It’s not tag team. You can’t find random people to pay off a dead uncle’s loan.”

“She’s not random. They was close. Frank and her.”

“No, they weren’t. I’m way closer to Garm. We used to date each other,” I said.

“Like for—brrr—two weeks.”

“Shut up. You weren’t even here then. You’re just some nobody with a broken mouth trying to collect money from innocent people standing on street corners.”

“Yeah, what you—brrr—doing here, anyway?”

“Waiting for my car.”

“You’re driving?” Mozza asked, alarmed. He turned this way and that and even backed up. As if me mentioning an automobile was enough for him to get run over.

“No, it’s a taxi. And hey, sorry for saying your mouth is broken,” I added.

The Colmarian Confederation was the largest empire in the galaxy. It was composed of about 50,000 unique species and occupied approximately 75% of habitable space. It was the epitome of a melting pot society. The Confederation possessed an unbelievable number of problems, but racism was not one of them. People were far more concerned with surviving than if the person sitting across from them had four eyes and two butts.

“’Sokay,” Mozza nodded. “Sorry Frank is—brrr—dead. He was a great guy.”

“Yeah, whatever.”

“Seriously,” he added, thinking I was dismissing his sympathy as false. “I worked with Frank. He was tops.”

“You worked with me, too. And I gave you good advice you didn’t take.”

“I know. But you’re like different.”

“What do you mean?” I asked, annoyed.

“You’re always there. Like space.”

“That a fat joke?” I asked.

“No. Not exactly. But space is—brrr—scary and all, but it’s not going anywhere. No one wakes up every day and is like, “Thad Elon, I’m in outer space!” Crazy people do. But after a decade, you get used to it. And you’ve been here for centuries and centuries. When I first set foot on Belvaille they told me about you,” Mozza said.

“What’d they say?”

“Not to get near you—brrr—when you’re eating. Because you might think I’m food.”

“You’re plastic!”

“No, I’m not. It just looks like it.”

“And when have I ever eaten anyone?”

“I think it was a joke. Mostly.”

“Anyway, I’m not paying you 2.5 million. I’m not Frank. I’m Hank. Big difference. And I don’t have anywhere near—and I mean near—that much money. I can’t dream of that much. In fact, what could Frank possibly do with two and a half million credits? Why would your condorshium loan him a mountain of cash?”

“He said it was—brrr—something to do with the Boranjame,” Mozza answered.



Mozza left and my armored cab arrived ten minutes later. It was heavily reinforced and protected. I didn’t need the armor, but while they were building it up to support my weight, they figured they might as well slap on some protection and get fares operating as an armored car in a city filled with criminals.

“Hey, Hank,” the cabbie said.

“Hi, Zzzho,” I replied.

Zzzho was a Keilvin Kamigan. A gaseous species. I couldn’t spot him in the driver’s seat because he was actually plugged into the vehicle. His own bioelectricity powered the car. He could see using cameras and talk using speakers. He was essentially non-corporeal.

“Where to?” he asked.

“The morgue,” I said.

“Ah. Sorry about Frank. I really liked the old coot,” Zzzho said.

“Whatever.”

“No, really. I mean, the first time we met, he tried to stiff me on the fare. He was all like, ‘What’re you going to do to me, gas man?’”

“What a dick. So what did you do?” I asked.

“I sat in his lungs for three days electrocuting him.”

“Three days? It took that long for him to pay your lousy fare?”

“No. He was ready to give up in like a few hours. But I can’t see or hear anything when I’m in someone’s lungs. And I lost track of time. But after that we were cool.”

“Doesn’t sound cool.”

“Nah. He was okay if he respected you. He gave me sweet tips after that,” Zzzho said.

“It seems weird he would need you. He could drive himself. Did he use you a lot?”

“Sure. Anyone can drive—except you—but if you leave a car unattended on Belvaille, it’s going to get stripped or stolen.”

“Yeah,” I agreed.

“He talked about you some.”

“Really? What’d he say?” I asked.

“He thought you were weak.”

“Weak? I’m way stronger than he was. More dense. Heavier. He was just older and meaner,” I said.

“Maybe he didn’t call you weak. Uh, squishy?”

“Those are really different words. You don’t remember?”

“Hank, I don’t have a body. When people say things like ‘soft’ or ‘moist’ or ‘peppery’ those are nuances to senses I’ve never had. I have to guess what they’re talking about.”

“What was the gist?”

“That mentally and emotionally and not-Hank-punchally, you were…bad. I don’t know another way of putting it without making it wrong. Not terrible. Not good. But more terrible than good,” he said.

“Figures. Hey, he ever talk about Boranjame?” I asked.

Zzzho laughed, which sounded like hiccupping static on his speakers.

“No, Hank. You’re the only one in this city who worries about gods and demigods. Slapping around Thad Elon or fighting Therezians.”

We were just passing Wallow Street. It was a blocked-off alley that was blocked because a Therezian had died in the middle of it about forty years ago. Wallow had been scores of feet tall and, even after all this time, no one could move him, or even pierce his skin. His body hadn’t decayed even a bit. It looked like he was sleeping, with his eyes open, against the buildings he had partially smashed when he fell over.

Wallow and I had “fought” a few times. The fights didn’t last long and generally involved Wallow nudging me and me regaining consciousness in the hospital a month later.

“I just heard Frank might have had some connection with Boranjame,” I said.

“If he did, he didn’t go blabbing about it. Those guys can read minds.”

“I don’t know about that,” I chuckled. “But they can see the future. And eat planets.”

“Right. They can do that stuff but you think mind reading is far-fetched?” he asked.

“I can’t imagine they would ever want to know what we’re thinking. Gax is still living in his mega spaceship orbiting the space station, right?” I asked.

“You don’t orbit Belvaille. That ship is practically the same size as this city. And I’ll ask you to kindly not speak of him in my cab. I don’t want him reading my thoughts for no reason.”

“You worried what he might find?” I asked.

“No, I’m worried he’ll accidentally erase my mind because he’s not used to reading a Keilvin Kamigan. Can we just please change the subject?”

“Sure. Sorry. When did you last see Frank? Do you keep records?”

“If I kept records on Belvaille, how long do you think it would be before someone blew up my taxi? I probably saw him within a month. A few weeks before he was…you know.”

“You see anything unusual? Any weird chatter going on?” I asked.

“This whole city is weird. A lot of newcomers.”

“How do you know they’re new? This city has 300,000 citizens, you know.”

“That much? I can simply tell they’re strangers,” he said.

“What, some magical cabbie intuition?”

“No, Hank. They’re getting rides to and from hotels. And they don’t know the names of streets or where any restaurants are. As for chatter, people think you killed Frank. They know we hang out a lot so they’ve been asking me what I believe.”

“What do you tell them?” I asked.

“I say you didn’t. You two didn’t get along. But neither of you got along with anyone.”

“That’s not true. I get along with everyone. That’s kind of my job,” I said.

“Your job is to be everyone’s friend? I thought your job was to be a bulletproof face smasher,” Zzzho replied.

“Only when guys are being jerks and things aren’t working out,” I said.

“So basically, all the time.”



Architecture and city planning on a space station had to adhere to some pretty significant requirements. There was a flat limit on how tall you could build before you went sticking out into space. There’s also a finite amount of land available—you couldn’t simply go build out into the suburbs.

Public works were really important and citizens didn’t ever push back or complain about them being too close or too noisy. Everyone really liked having water and air and gravity and a shield that kept out meteors and radiation.

Belvaille was an exact grid, ten miles by ten miles, with an enormous spaceship port on the east side and an enormous telescope array on the north side. Although cardinal directions didn’t apply out in space, they certainly helped once you were in a city. You couldn’t give street directions based on distant nebulae or fractal geometry. The first city planners had long ago decided where Belvaille’s north side was based on a series of coin tosses.

The space station was clean. Beyond clean. It was scrubbed and sanitized and scrubbed again. 50,000 alien species couldn’t coexist otherwise. There weren’t nearly that many races on Belvaille, but there were enough that you had to have robust garbage and cleaning services so some alien’s toxic sidewalk spit didn’t morph into a super virus that killed everyone.

The only bonus that being on a space station provided, as far as city planning went, was that buildings had a freedom that planet-bound structures couldn’t dream of. You could truly live in a house of cards and not worry about rain or wind or earthquakes knocking down your home. While boring rectangles, which maximized space, were still the norm, there were all kinds of wacky materials used in their construction. And every block or so there was at least one building with wildly twisting, haphazard aesthetics that would have instantly crumbled if it was moved to a planetary environment.

The morgue was located in the southwest. It took up a lot more space and energy than the morgue of a regular city. And it had to.

Dead bodies were a source of biological badness and they had to be dealt with ruthlessly and efficiently. Sympathy was a luxury an enclosed populace couldn’t afford. No one was buried and you didn’t get to keep the ashes of your dead relatives.

Small space stations and spaceships simply jettisoned their dead. But Belvaille was a major shipping port and a very large city which, through natural and unnatural means, created a lot of dead bodies. At this point there would be tens of thousands of frozen corpsesicles around the city. Spaceships travelling near the speed of light don’t appreciate things like that.

When I got there, I saw a lot of folks waiting inside the morgue. We weren’t an entirely uncaring city. While they couldn’t accommodate every religion and culture, the morgue set aside general-purpose rooms that people could use to grieve and say their farewells. Rooms that were ruthlessly blasted free of tears and snot after every use.

One of the clerks noticed me standing in line. I was taller than most people in the city, significantly wider, and overwhelmingly heavier.

The clerk waved his hand and I heard the side door buzz and I went on back.

The internals of the morgue were exactly what a morgue would look like if it had been designed by a horror movie director. It was dark. Cramped. And from every room came the sounds of saws and torches and the staff grunting and cursing as they attempted to dismember some alien that had a hundred members.

Most bodies were incinerated so thoroughly there was nothing but pure carbon left over.

But they still had to check on the bodies. Not because we had a vibrant and concerned police force, but as a matter of public safety. Morgues were an early warning center. Well, not too early, since someone was already dead. But it was important to know how they died in case the culprit was a disease or virus or bacteria that threatened to exterminate us all.

If someone died of murder, the morgue workers were relieved. Because that meant they didn’t have to do anything.

The chief coroner was a man who was a foot taller than me, two feet thicker than me—three feet at the belly—and had one more head than me.

Muck-Mock was simply an enormous man with two skulls on two elongated, sinewy necks. One head had the mouth and the other head had the eyes and nose and ears. It had been an evolutionary trick to allow them to eat their herbivore diets and look out for predators.

Morticians, I’ve found, are a peculiar lot. Not that any subtype of oddball profession was normal. But they tended to take the darkest of dark humors and crank it up about 5,000%.

“Hank,” the large man said, upon me entering his office.

Inside he had a vast collection of body parts and mutilation tools. They weren’t on display or even ordered. They were simply scattered around the office so haphazardly that you had to watch your step lest you slice off a toe or crush the petrified egg-embryo of some sponge-lizard alien.

“Muck-Mock, you got a minute?” I asked.

“I called you five times,” he said, annoyed.

“I know. I’ve been…processing,” I said.

He nodded one of his heads.

“We all loved Frank,” he said.

“Whatever.”

“No, seriously. He was a regular customer. Always had, you know, decorum.”

“My uncle?” I asked.

“Yeah. All these cutthroats around Belvaille. They got no style.”

“I don’t know. I see plenty of styles. Like that bone jewelry that’s popular now. Attaches right to your bones.”

“Not style like that. I mean class,” he said.

“You think Frank had class?”

“When he killed someone, he made sure they was paid for, even if they had no money. He’d come down personal and drop off the body and make sure they got good treatment,” Muck-Mock declared.

“Do some corpses get…manhandled? Are there different levels of care when you’re being cut into pieces and disintegrated?” I asked.

“We do our best. But we’re overworked. Especially during the Stupid Times. Like gang wars and that last spicy food festival,” he said, shaking both of his heads in dismay. “Lot of bodies to process and we only got so many team members. Could you maybe talk to Garm and see about getting us some more funding?”

“Pushing Garm for money is likely to make you a client in your own morgue,” I warned.

“I know that. Which is why I’m asking you. Remember the chief of roads? Roadbuilder? Whatever he was. Wanted new curbs for the city. Demanded them. Poof. He’s gone.”

“Right. So, um, I came to check how my uncle died. Like, specifically. I know he was shot a bunch.”

“Yeah, let’s start from the top,” Muck-Mock said, opening his official forms on his unofficial tele. “Your uncle was shot with firearms, twenty to forty times. He was stabbed, lacerated, or bludgeoned with hard objects, thirty to fifty times. He was chemically burned to no effect—”

“We’re fireproof,” I interrupted.

“Flame resistant,” Muck-Mock countered.

“I’m fireproof. I should know,” I said.

“Nothing is ‘fireproof.’ That’s an absurd term. If you were thrown into a star, you would burn.”

“Maybe,” I grumbled.

“Frank was also hit with what appears to be numerous laser or high-energy beams.”

“What’s with all the fifty-to-thirty-five estimates? Aren’t you guys supposed to be able to tell and record exactly what happened?” I asked.

“No. First off, none of these things killed Frank. He was up and about doing Frank stuff after all this happened. And we don’t record exactly, because it doesn’t matter if someone was shot five times or seven times. If they’re here, they’re dead. What do you need exact for? You responsible for bullet inventory on Belvaille?” he asked.

“No, but it tells me if five guys jumped him or ten and what kind of guns they had,” I said.

“If you’ll allow me to finish, we’ll get to all that.”

“Maybe you should just give me the report and I can skip your dramatic reading.”

“Maybe I want to help you and you won’t understand the report.”

“You saying I’m stupid or something?” I challenged.

“Yes, I am. Now shut up and I’ll tell you what killed your uncle,” he replied.

I silently sulked.

“Now,” he began. “What killed Frank was he was missing a lung, part of his liver, a big chunk of his small intestine, and a kidney.”

“Um, missing? Did you lose them?”

“Lose them? What kind of shop you think I’m running, Hank?” Muck-Mock said, offended.

“The kind that gives reports on bullet wounds that includes the words ‘sorta,’ ‘maybe,’ and ‘lots.’ Did you all misplace his organs? Could have been one of your interns or something.”

“No. Internal organs from your uncle were not misplaced. I performed the postmortem myself. As a favor,” he said.

“Thanks. But that—”

“Not a favor to you. To Frank. He was my friend. He helped me out a number of times.”

“So have I,” I said.

“No, you haven’t. You have never helped me. Every time I see your face, I know my day, week, or year is going to get more difficult.”

“I always pay you,” I replied.

“Yes, you do. You’re a fair, honest neck-breaker. But you have never once come by and just checked to see how I was doing. ‘How’s life, Muck-Mock?’ You have never once said that without it being a lead-in to some underhanded Hank activities.”

“Yeah. But…you’re a mortician.”

“So? I can’t be a guy, too? I hung out with Frank. We’d knock back some flordz and just talk. I’m not contagious, Hank. I’m the most sterile person on the space station—by law.”

“Alright. Okay. So, how’s life?” I asked.

“It sucks. Frank’s dead and I’m going to be kicked out of my apartment. Landlord wants to make some spiffy new luxury condos.”

“That blows,” I agreed.

“No kidding. I been there for seventy-five years, Hank. You know how hard it is to move all that stuff? And I have things I don’t want to move. Skeletons in my closet. I literally have skeletons in my closet.”

“Oh. So. I guess…”

“Yeah, if you could talk to my landlord. Give him the old Hank speak. I’m sure that would help,” Muck-Mock said.

“You…tried talking to him yourself yet?” I asked.

“No, Hank. Violence is the very first thought that comes to me,” he answered sarcastically. “I don’t have a real job. I have single-handedly made this the most corrupt and dangerous space station in the galaxy. Oh, wait, that’s you.”

“It was pretty bad when I got here.”

“Who’re you kidding? The city was practically built around you.”

“I’m, you know, trying to get to the bottom of my uncle’s killer. But I can maybe talk to your landlord some other time,” I said.

“See? Typical Hank,” he said. He shook his heads at me but then continued. “Your uncle was missing a sizeable chunk of his organs. No, they weren’t missing missing. They were all in his chest cavity, but turned inside out, and shrunken by 82%.”

I stood blinking.

“Take your time,” he said. “This is why I wanted to slowly lead up to this. I can’t put this in my lab report because this is the kind of stuff that gets you fired. They’ll think I was drunk while doing autopsies.”

I was about to say something but Muck-Mock continued.

“And yes, we have rules. I didn’t make up all these quarantine and purification guidelines in some fever dream. It’s Colmarian standard procedure. I’m head coroner, but if I break policy, we got the Navy sitting right next door to show me out. So your uncle’s report doesn’t have any of this in it.”

“What…uh…what could do that?” I asked finally.

“How should I know? Some crazy Hank weapon.”

“Can I…can I see it? The body?”

“No. This is why I was calling you. I can’t keep dismembered corpses around forever. He’s been disposed of.”

“It couldn’t have been an accident? Like with your chemicals and stuff? Maybe one of your people mixed up which lung was which,” I said, trying to work this through out loud.

“I told you, I performed this myself. You mutant Ontakians are not easy to process.”

“He wasn’t a mutant. Just me.”

“Uh, I’ve worked on Ontakians before. Combat models like you and Frank. Yeah, they’re tough. But I broke eight saws, two drills, and two chemical lasers trying to do the autopsy on Frank. And I was going to wait until the end and present it as a nice memento, but here,” he said, slapping the desk with a small clear square.

I picked it up, squinting. It was a block of some kind of plastic with a white nub inside.

“That’s his molar. A keepsake. I’m breaking a lot of rules to give that to you. So don’t go blabbing. It’s sealed from contamination inside that plastic,” Muck-Mock said.

“This is one of Frank’s teeth?” I asked dumbly.

“Yeah. I had to put each of his teeth, individually, into Big H to pulverize it. I’ve never had to do that with teeth. So I’m thinking maybe he was a mutant.”

“What’s a Big H?”

“It’s our largest graviton press. We use it for stuff like exoskeletons and horns. Takes a lot of power, so we don’t fire it up often. Actually, heh, it’s named after you. I totally forgot. It’s the Hank Press. But we just call it Big H around here.”

“Is that because people think I’m fat?” I asked.

“No, it’s because people think your sparkling personality is heavy enough to shatter bones that have the tensile strength of industrial diamonds.”

“I still don’t understand what you’re saying about Frank.”

“I don’t get it either. But picture something removing a section of your uncle’s internal organs. Cut seamlessly. No heat. No marks. No physical proof they were ever actually connected. It then turned them inside out. And miniaturized them. Leaving no actual exit or entry wounds. None of those bullets, bombs, or knives ever pierced below the musculature—at least on his torso,” he said. “How could they? It took me nine specialized saws to perform a postmortem even after Frank was dead.”

“Can I have the report?” I asked.

“The official report says he died of sunstroke,” he said.

“What? Why?”

“MTB was concerned the city has too many murders. Don’t want to give the Navy any more excuses than they need. So he asked me to fudge some of the reports and this was an easy one to fudge because the real report would totally look fake.”

“Isn’t ‘fudging’ reports against the precious rules you were talking about?” I asked.

“Don’t be coy. Every time you set foot in here it’s to get me to break the rules. And I do it because we have a giant bone crusher named in your honor. Now kindly take your uncle’s tooth and get out,” he said.





CHAPTER 3


A Moment to Reflect



I was in a bad mood and I decided to walk back from the morgue to clear my head.

About three blocks later, I was tired and hungry. I’m not designed to be a long-distance runner. No one is designed to be a long-distance runner. It’s a stupid concept.

And, yes, I realize I say that with very little knowledge of alien species and biologies. In fact, just off the top of my head, I can think of three species that are phenomenal long-distance, super-marathon competitors. Beings not only capable of jogging for hundreds of miles nonstop, but who actually enjoy it.

But I’m not them. And my feet hurt. I can’t wear socks or shoes because they last a few steps before they turn into flaps of loose fabric hanging to my ankles and everyone thinks I’m sporting some weird jewelry. As if I’m an anklet kind of guy.

I gave MTB a tele call and went to a nearby diner to get some food.

“Out! Out! Everyone out! We need to make room for Hank,” the restaurant owner declared.

Restaurants loved me. I was a great customer. I ate about a week of food in one sitting, I tipped well, and I wasn’t fussy about what I was eating.

While I arguably had the best butler in the galaxy, we had agreed he would only prepare my dinners. Otherwise, he didn’t have time to do anything else except make my breakfast, brunch, lunch, snacks, dinner, and snacks.

“Long time no see, Hank. Where have you been?” the owner asked, as the few customers squeezed their way past me, grumbling.

The diner was small, with only eight stools for customers. I had to turn sideways to even fit inside.

“Just around. You got any of those fried noodles?” I asked.

“I’m afraid we only have a few pounds of grease to cook them right now. My orders are backed up. But I can make you a dumping gravy soup. I bought a big kettle especially for you.”

“Okay. Sounds good.”

“I’m terribly sorry about your uncle. He was a noble man.”

“What?” I asked, confused.

“I said he was a noble man,” the owner repeated, louder.

“Alright. How’s business?”

“Good. Good. Lot of new customers,” he began. He gave my lunch orders to the kitchen as he continued speaking. “The city is more bustling than ever. I’m thinking of opening another store in the north. Hard to find reliable workers, though.”

“Yeah.”

“I’m also concerned about being forced to pay protection. Those fees can wipe out any meager profit I make. You think you might…be able to help with that?”

“I don’t really do protection against protection. It gets too complicated,” I said.

“I understand. I can only imagine. Heh. Your uncle Frank was of some help in that regard,” he hinted.

I pretended not to hear.

“I said your uncle helped me avoid paying protection,” he repeated.

“Okay. I’m sorry, I’m just trying to eat right now.”

“Oh. Excuse me. Margolin! Where’s Hank’s food?” he yelled to the kitchen.

“Haven’t even filled the kettle. This thing is huge,” a voice called back.

“Excuse me a moment,” he said to me, smiling. He then rushed to the kitchen and I could hear the cook and owner arguing.



After I was done eating, I left the diner and MTB drove up alongside me in his tank. He owned an actual tank. Though the Navy had squawked at him and made him take off the turret. Tanks were cramped vehicles at the best of times and there wasn’t room for me inside so MTB got out and walked with me.

MTB was variously called a detective. A cop. A police chief. And many colorful obscenities in addition. He was the head of the local law enforcement which was about as toothless an organization as one might expect on a space station that catered to haphazardly organized crime.

He had a square chin and practically a square everything—making him look like a poorly rendered 3D design made up of lots of rectangles. He was a thick man who was about as uplifting as a blood-soaked cinder block you found outside your mother’s front door. MTB always wore a trench coat and a fedora hat, despite there being little need for either on a climate-controlled space station with no sun. He also had a thick, salt-and-pepper mustache which was new.

“What’s the word, Hank?” MTB said, in his gravelly voice.

“Uh, parsnickety? Did you tell Muck-Mock to reduce the number of murders?” I asked.

“You got a bunch of food on your chin,” he said, wiping his own face.

I rubbed my forearm on my chin and it indeed came back sopping. The dumpling soup had been good, but not mind-blowing. I think they were rushed and simply threw in every ingredient they had. I was also spoiled from my butler Cliston’s phenomenal cooking skills.

“As for Muck-Mock, yeah, I told him that. I went to a police convention—” MTB started.

“Here?” I asked, surprised.

“No, this was like five months ago. A few quadrants away. A little vacation,” he said.

“You’re the only person on Belvaille who would consider going to a law enforcement symposium a vacation.”

He shrugged, but to little effect. MTB had almost no neck at all. He turned his body a lot.

“I found out we, Belvaille, are the number one murder capital in this sector per capita.”

“Is that bad?” I asked.

“You know how big a sector is?”

“No.”

“Like a thousand populated solar systems. Something crazy.”

“That can’t be right,” I said. “There has to be worse places. There are planets at war. Planets experiencing genocide. Those cities have to be garbage.”

“Sure. But everyone knows that. You have to add all sorts of criteria. Like beyond a certain size—a city with two people that stab one another has a huge crime rate; not undergoing a civil war; not under occupation by a foreign power; not in the vestigial heliosphere of a methane-nitrogen binary—which apparently makes people murderous; stuff like that. But of the Belvaille-like cities, we were number one for murders last year. I want to try and knock us below fifty. No one will notice us then.”

“Did you talk to Garm about this?” I asked.

“No.”

“Don’t you work for her?”

“No.”

“Who do you work for?”

“No one. We get paid from the General Fund. Though if Garm told me to do something, I’d definitely give it a good consideration,” he said.

“Yeah, she’s a clever lady.”

“And she could easily kill me with her bare hands and you might be the only person in this sector who would give a damn.”

“Heh. I’m sure your deputies would care.”

“They’re all crooks and want my job. But getting back to the murders, most cities fall off the list in a year. Like it was just a fluke. Some family reunion that turned into clan warfare.”

“And next year they’re totally peaceful because everyone is dead,” I said.

“Exactly. And they’re no-name cities. Belvaille is a major Navy installation and major shipping hub. On any given day we got enough warships floating out there that if they all simultaneously turned on their headlights it would be enough to incinerate the city.”

“Do warships have headlights?” I asked, curious.

“How should I know? But you can’t tell anyone about this.”

“About the headlights?”

“No. About us being murder capital. It was an obscure report. You know the Colmarian Confederation, they got trillions of reports. I just happened to stumble upon it at a convention. I never would have found it on my own.”

“You told Muck-Mock about it,” I countered.

“Yeah. But he’s a mortician. Who the hell talks to him?”

“Exactly! He made a big deal about me not being friendly to him like my uncle was. And I’m all like, you handle dead people for a living and you’re weird,” I said.

“He is pretty weird,” MTB agreed. “But it’s kind of like cops: the job tends to limit your applicants to specific personalities.”

“True. It’s the same with crooks. Every pimp is the same. Every drug dealer. Every document forger. Every tough guy.”

“And he said that Frank was the mortician-loving kind of tough guy?” MTB asked.

“Yeah. I notice you didn’t wish me condolences on my uncle.”

“Because he was an asshole,” MTB said.

“Thank you! I’m getting sick of people telling me what an angel he was.”

“He was scum. With his death alone, we can probably drop to below top 500 in murders.”

“Was he that…active?” I asked.

“Oh, yeah. You and I go our separate ways in life, Hank. But I like to think we respect each other,” he said.

“Sure. We need cops. Even if you take away my driver’s license,” I added sourly.

“Right. It’s for the good of the city. But Frank must have threatened to kill me at least a hundred times. Knocked me around a dozen times, until Garm finally said to quit it.”

“Wow. How did I not know this?” I asked.

“It was tough keeping track of all the ways he was a piece of crap.”

“Yeah. But, even still, I got to figure out who killed him. He was super popular and everyone thinks I did it.”

“Because this city is stupid. Some gossip goes around and Thad Elon himself couldn’t change anyone’s opinion. People still think Garm is some hardcore Navy operative when she’s the biggest thief in the city.”

“She’d be number one in the quadrant,” I agreed.

“There’s a ton of idiots who think I’m actually a Navy spy.”

“What do they think you’re spying on, precisely?” I asked.

“Who knows? As long as the port is operational and the telescopes are operational and we stay out of their way, the Navy doesn’t care about us.”

“Except if we murder each other?” I asked.

“That’s just me being cautious. Being number one on a sector-wide homicide report is bad luck. I’m not actually stopping the murders. I’m just lying about them,” he said.

“That’s the Belvaille Way.”

“Yeah. But as for your uncle, I don’t have a whole lot on his death,” MTB said. He then reached in his pocket and took out a long notebook and began flipping pages.

“What the hell is that?” I asked.

“It’s where I take notes.”

“On actual paper? You crazy?” I asked. Belvaille was a space station. Everything had to be shipped here. It made some items, particularly heavy items of low durability, exquisitely expensive. I hadn’t seen actual paper on Belvaille in decades.

“This is made by sanitation right here on the station,” MTB said.

“Is it recycled?” I asked. We hardly had any vegetation at all in the city.

“Sort of. It’s dead skin and keratin and such. We spend a fortune hauling our biological waste away and they decided to try and make some products out of it and keep it here. Every banner and sign you see is the same material. And they’re working on repaving the roads with another version of it,” MTB explained.

“So you’re basically writing on someone’s face?”

“Or fingernails or hair. Yeah.”

“Let me see it,” I asked, curious.

He handed it to me and I looked at the squiggles and scribbles on the page.

“Can you actually read this?”

“Sort of. I’ve been taking a shorthand class. You can’t write long form—or I can’t. There’s not enough space. And my handwriting is really bad because I’ve never physically written before in my life.”

“This seems like a lot of extra work just to take notes on someone’s facial hair.”

“Trust me. It has a big psychological impact.”

“How so?”

“Because it’s actual writing. Not a camera. Not blinking into a screen. It’s got a gravity and severity to it,” MTB said.

“Whatever works, man. So what can you tell me about Frank?”

“We received a call of a disturbance, on the 9th at 6:38 pm. The caller thought it was you.”

“Yeah, we looked similar. Same chin,” I said.

“Caller described it as numerous individuals who were armed with automatic weapons. But I figured it was Frank.”

“How did you know based on a tele call?” I asked.

“They described him as running around and I know you can’t run.”

“I sort of can,” I objected. But MTB gave me a questioning look. Right now, he was slow walking so he could keep pace with me. “Anyway, go on.”

“We get Hank calls now and then and our standard procedure is to do nothing.”

“Hey, thanks. So if I’m getting slaughtered the Belvaille police just ignore it.”

“If someone or something is capable of slaughtering you, I’m not even going to be a speedbump. If you need help and call me and organize it, I’m happy to lend a hand—if it’s a good cause. But your extremely long and colorful career is all about getting shot up.”

“That isn’t my job,” I said.

“I know, I know. But you have to admit, it happens an awful lot compared to regular people, who tend to die after a few instances of that,” he said.

“Okay. Fair enough. I suppose I didn’t expect cops to show up and rescue me.”

“Yeah. Once there’s more than two machine guns, it’s not really a police issue any longer. It’s a Belvaille issue,” he said.

“And who takes care of those?”

“You do. Or it takes care of itself—which is why we’re top of the murder list.”

“I seem to recall we were number one before,” I said.

“Maybe we were. But either I wasn’t here then, or the Navy wasn’t here then, or we weren’t operating a complicated shipping scam then,” he said.

Belvaille made most of its revenue by virtue of its access to galactic shipping lanes. Spaceships used Portals to traverse the empire and Belvaille was situated as a hub that had access to many Portals. Which was why the Navy liked to park its ships at our doorstep, so they could easily redeploy where needed.

“So what did you and the cops find? Did you witness the actual murder?” I asked.

“I went alone. No point in everyone getting killed. And I took my time getting there. No point in me getting killed,” he said. “I found his body, face down on the corner of 28th and Eat Your Bitch Ass Street.”

“They still haven’t changed the name of that road?” I asked.

“I like it. It’s colorful. Frank was deceased when I reached him and there were already a few lookity-spectators congregating nearby. Whoever had killed him had done a number on the surrounding few blocks. Car fires. Building fires. Bullet holes everywhere in everything.”

“Did Frank kill any of the people he was fighting?” I asked.

“Not that I saw. But they might have taken them with. His hands were a bloody mess, though. So he was either punching away machinegun fire, or he wrecked his knuckles wrecking faces.”

“Probably both,” I said somberly. The actual details of the death felt more emotional than I had expected. I wasn’t a psychopath, like Frank, and hearing details of his execution was rough.

“He also had powder marks on both hands and wrists. Weren’t powder burns, because you guys are fireproof.”

“Flame resistant,” I corrected sagely.

“So Frank had been shooting guns with each hand. Though I couldn’t find them. Must have dropped them or had them blown to pieces,” MTB said.

“So it was like a running battle?”

“Yeah. Literally. Spanned a dozen blocks. How anyone could take that much damage for that long and not be a Therezian, or you, is a mystery. I didn’t think he was a mutant.”

“He isn’t. Wasn’t. Which was always why I thought he was so brutal. He had to hammer people into the ground before he got shot,” I said.

“Well, he got shot plenty. And from what I could tell, they weren’t shooting pebbles. Four people—inside cars or their homes—got hit by stray bullets and ended up in the hospital,” MTB said.

“Any fatalities?” I asked, concerned.

“No. But two are still in serious condition. I checked up to get details and one was hit with a sixty-five-caliber tungsten slug,” he said.

“How did a bystander survive that?” I asked, surprised. It was a truly large bullet and should have practically blown apart a regular Colmarian.

“I think it was a pistol round. Wasn’t a rifle, so lower velocity. That’s why I called it a slug. Just a big blob of metal. And they were inside their bathroom when they were hit. So the bullet passed through an outer wall and three inner walls and lost a lot of power.”

“Were they taking a crap or a shower?” I asked.

“Brushing teeth.”

“That’s got to suck. Probably turn them off dental hygiene for the rest of their life,” I speculated.

MTB nodded.

“I suppose I owe it to them to pay their bills and kick in a bit extra. Can you give me their names?” I asked.

“Sure. I got them at the office. But, word of advice: You’ll quickly go broke trying to pay back every person your uncle screwed over.”

“I realize that. But innocent bystanders are where we should draw the line. We’re not animals,” I said.

“Frank still had his wallet. His tele. Stuff in his pockets. Nothing valuable or noteworthy. But he had 345 credits on him. Wasn’t a robbery,” he said.

“Of course not. You don’t shoot up a dozen blocks trying to rob someone. That would have to be the worst or most persistent stick-up man in the galaxy.”

“Yeah. That’s about all I got,” MTB said, closing his notepad. “You want to check out Frank’s apartment?”

“You knew where he lived?” I asked, surprised. “I didn’t. He was always moving around. Changing locations.”

“He was. But I knew his last address. Or one of them.”

“Okay. I suppose I should take a look,” I sighed.

I felt lousy. Like I had somehow been responsible for Frank getting left face down in the street.

Dealing with this was way more traumatic than I had anticipated.

It wasn’t that I was squeamish. I had killed people in the past. Many people. And while I didn’t relish doing it, and took every step possible to avoid it, I didn’t sit crying into my soup about it. Belvaille was a harsh place.

A murder capital. No one came here to relax or live peacefully. They came here because they got kicked out of everywhere else.

But Frank was the last of my family. The last connection to my past. And now I’ll never know anything about it.

And then there was the way he died. Despite what people say, there are most definitely good and bad ways to get murdered. I got an image of him being terrified and running for his life as he was shot to hell over a dozen blocks. That qualifies as a sucky way to go down.

“Did anyone get a good look at his attackers? Muck-Mock said Frank’s organs were like, twisted. Did they see any machines or magic wands that could have made that happen?” I asked.

“When that much firepower gets thrown around outside your window, smart people, and dumb people, tend to hide under their beds. We got the one call and nothing else,” he said. “To get to Frank’s place is across the city. It’ll take your monster thighs seven hours to walk there. You can ride on the hood of my car. Just don’t block my view.”

“Can your car hold me?” I asked.

“It’s a tank, Hank.”





CHAPTER 4


Breaking and Exiting



I was with MTB outside of Frank’s apartment.

It was a standard apartment building on a nonstandard space station. Fifty units. Nothing luxurious or showy. Frank had a corner apartment on the fifth floor and MTB was trying to hack the lock to get us inside.

“I swear, these security systems get more complicated every damn week,” MTB cursed. He had a half dozen tools and scanners attached to the door as he attempted to bypass it.

“Yeah. Used to be, all the doors on Belvaille were controlled centrally. You could have them open or close any door in the city,” I said.

“When was this?” MTB asked absently.

“Long before your time. Belvaille wasn’t built by architects and designers. It was made by engineers. There’s still a bunch of those original buildings around.”

“The steel ones?” he asked.

“Yeah. Big blocks of metal. Like they expected Belvaille to be experiencing hurricanes every other day. They didn’t realize having steel walls a foot thick on a space station really limited your living area. But I have to hand it to them, nothing breaks down here,” I said.

“Sure it does. Lights go out. Sections of the ventilation. Water loses pressure.”

“That’s minor stuff. We’re in space. I was talking to a freighter jockey a few years back. He used to fly airplanes. You know, in atmosphere. He said airplanes had two redundancies for every critical system. So if they hit an animal or something, they could still operate the plane.”

“How’s an airplane hitting an animal?” MTB asked, still fiddling with his tools.

“There’s flying animals, right? Like on planets?”

“How should I know?” MTB asked.

“Anyway, he was saying that spaceships have the Rule of Twelve. Any critical system has twelve redundancies. Because in an airplane, you could still float. Or drift. Or whatever. But you lose a critical system in space and poof, you’re gone instantly,” I said.

“How long you been on Belvaille, Hank?” he asked.

“I was one of the originals. I worked in the sewers.”

“Sewers? Was that your hideout?” he asked.

“No. It was my job. Belvaille wasn’t a crooked place back then. They had high hopes for this city. But reality is a sadistic bitch who doesn’t give a crap about your hopes.”

A neighbor poked his head out his front door to see who was breaking in.

“Everything’s under control, sir or madam,” MTB said, grunting.

“Um. Hi, Hank. Should I leave?” the man asked.

“No need,” MTB said.

“Yeah. Might be a good idea. Just for a bit,” I told the neighbor.

The man grabbed a thin coat and scurried down the hall without a look back.

“Foot-thick walls you said? How did they get all that metal out here?” MTB asked.

“I don’t know. They were building a ten-mile space station. However they got the rest of it out here.”

“Your uncle’s lock is way different than the other doors,” MTB said, pausing to take a look at where the neighbor had just vacated. “I hope he didn’t rig this door with traps.”

“You know, he might have. So stop doing that. This isn’t an original building. It’s like fifth generation,” I said, walking the length of the wall and tapping at it.

“What’s that mean?” MTB asked.

“It means the walls aren’t anywhere near a foot thick,” I said. And then I kicked the wall and my leg penetrated into the apartment up to my knee.

“Thad Elon! Sometimes I forget how heavy you are,” he said. “You could have saved us an hour if you did that from the start.” MTB began disconnecting and collecting his gear from the door.

I pushed and kicked at the wall to widen the hole so we could get in.

“I don’t like smashing homes unless there’s a good reason. It’s a mental thing. People like to feel safe in their apartments. If everyone knows I can just stomp through walls, then I’m the guy that makes them feel unsafe,” I explained.

“Smart. Don’t electrocute yourself,” he warned.

“Not enough voltage goes through here to hurt me.”

“Well, it will hurt me plenty. So let me know if you feel a tingle,” he said.

It took me five minutes of kicking and pushing to get a decent hole. This complex didn’t have good construction, but it wasn’t exactly papier-mâché.

We crawled in and turned on the lights. I wasn’t sure what I expected to find, but it made perfect sense.

The apartment was filled to the ceiling with stuff Frank had stolen. There was a mound of floor tiling in one corner. Thousands of lighting fixtures in another. He had piles of toys. Consumer electronics. Stolen clothes.

“Hank, look,” MTB said, standing by several crates. He held up a jar. “This is baby food.”

“What a dirt ball,” I sighed.

It was clear he had intercepted some of the shipping freights and made off with goods. This was how Belvaille made a lot of its cash. We would “skim” items. Or skim money. But we took miniscule percentages. So small it was hard to detect. Over the course of a thousand ships, it added up to a lot. We paid off ship crews and government customs officers who kept a perfect accounting of every gram of material every step of its transit.

The Skim was a complicated scam that I had originally developed—or at least proposed. The tens of thousands of professional criminals on Belvaille developed it. And it took the combined efforts of an army of forgers, thieves, blackmailers, pirates, black marketeers, and everything in between to make it operate smoothly.

It looked like Frank had been skimming from the Skim. Stealing from the crooks. I recognized some heavy-duty piping stacked along the wall.

“Those are internals from the space station. Frank was tearing apart the city under his feet,” I said, pointing.

“He was probably why the lights go out and water loses pressure,” MTB guessed.

“Yeah. Check that out. You were right,” I said, pointing. “He would have blown off your mustache.”

The door had been booby trapped. MTB gingerly took a closer inspection.

“He’s got charges above, below, and to the sides. This would have done way more than singe my facial hair,” he said.

“What’s with the mustache, anyway?” I asked.

“Every single creature at that law enforcement convention that was capable of growing facial hair, grew facial hair. They hardly took you seriously if you didn’t have any. It was the one badge that all species recognized. I started growing it the first night I was there,” he said.

“Cops are weird. None of this stuff is really valuable,” I said, scanning the apartment.

“Not really. No inheritance for you,” MTB chuckled.

“That’s not what I mean. Frank was a combat model Ontakian with centuries more experience than anyone. He could have worked as a fixer. Security. Hell, look at that door! He could have had any job in this city and got paid vastly more than this garbage.”

“I think we established your uncle was a dick,” MTB said.

“It’s just a waste. He was a waste. I know I’m not a rocket surgeon. No one is going to send me to explore new civilizations or debate complex monetary policy. I’m functioning at my very limited peak performance. But Frank could outsmart me, outfight me, out-everything just about everyone. And he was the most petty of petty crooks,” I said.

MTB gave that a thought.

“You’re right. He didn’t ever go in for the big jobs or join many gangs. If he did, he always double-crossed them. Didn’t exactly get along with others.”

“He screwed over everyone. Literally everyone. And all the idiots of Belvaille think that made him cool. But this is what he was. This is what he had to show for it,” I said, holding my arms wide. “He stole baby food.”

“Yeah, he was slime.”

“It’s not just that. He was sick. People go to absurd lengths to fit in. Every species that evolves enough to make it into space is cooperative. Because a million hands are better than one. Criminal sociopaths on Belvaille are members of cliques and fraternities. Because the need to fit in is a biological imperative. And Frank didn’t want any of it. He didn’t want friends.”

“Other than morticians,” MTB added.

“He was just using Muck-Mock like he used everyone. Frank didn’t have relationships. He had a library of suckers. The last living member of his entire family was no more important to him than anyone else,” I said.

Then I walked into the other room, disgusted.

“Hank. You need a moment alone?” MTB called after me.

“No. I just ate five gallons of soup. I need to pee,” I said.

“Oh. Be careful what you touch. He might have more traps and I don’t feel like getting blown up,” MTB added.

Frank’s bedroom was the same. Half of the bed was covered with stolen, still-in-the-package firefighting gear. You couldn’t see his floor because of the pile of computer consoles and automobile axles.

I found the bathroom and could barely fit in because of all the stolen crap. Frank was like a hoarder. But a hoarder of other people’s stuff.

There was a large, old-school mirror above the bathroom sink. Not digital, but actual reflective material. It had been punched twice by an Ontakian combat model and was so shattered it was impossible to see anything.

Maybe Frank hated himself as much as he hated everyone else. But who cares? I was going to pee in his toilet and not flush. A passive-aggressive send-off to my uncle. That was my mood right about now.

But I flushed.

It was such a habit I didn’t even notice. Besides, the landlord didn’t deserve me leaving a toilet filled with Hank piss here for a month. Wasn’t his fault my uncle sucked.

I had to close the door behind me so I could aim at the toilet and when I turned around to exit the bathroom, I noticed an electric map on the door.

It was a simplistic design. They used to use it to teach children in class. Which is how I remember it—not that it did any good in my case.

The map was of the galaxy, with lots of colored dots. When I touched a dot with my finger, it would bring up some entry. Clearly, Frank had been taking notes on something—assuming he hadn’t stolen this map like everything else. But the entry didn’t make any sense to me.

“Hey, Hank. You busy?” MTB called.

I took the map application and lifted it from the door. It’s not that big screens were inherently old. We used large screens all the time. But this was non-foldable, and had a tactile screen—which made it easier for kids to use.

“What’s up?” I asked, carrying the map.

“That a picture?”

“Map application. We used it for galactic geography back in the day,” I said.

“Heh, I remember those. As if we needed to know where Gloen-Floq system was when we weren’t going to ever get within 10,000 lightyears of it. But take a look at this.”

I rested the map against a pile of metal dishes. Not dirty dishes. Hundreds of clean dishes that had clearly been stolen from some freighter or other.

MTB was standing over an open plastic container. I joined him and looked down. There was a beefy gun inside.

“Is that a grenade launcher?” I asked.

“It’s a shotgun,” MTB said.

“No way.”

I picked it up. It was heavy. Not heavy for me, but heavy as hell for what amounted to a handgun. The whole thing was over a foot long, and it had two barrels side by side. MTB was right, they were shotgun barrels.

“It’s a revolving sawed-off shotgun. A damn six-shooter,” MTB said. “Those handle grips are sapphire.”

The pistol, if you could call it that, was a dull silver. It had a single thick trigger. There was a button to release the rotating cylinder, and nothing else. Not even a bead on top to help aim. But the handle had two bluish plates on each side. They looked out of place on the industrial gun.

“Sapphires like the jewelry?” I asked.

“They make them in labs. Scratch resistant,” he explained.

I opened the cylinder and there were six slots for 12-gauge shotgun shells.

“I used to have a gun very similar to this. Quadruple 10 gauge. It was handy, but too much recoil,” I said.

“I think that fires both at the same time no matter what,” MTB said. “I could barely hold it.”

“It’s not that heavy,” I said.

“That goes in one hand. That thing would fly up and hit me in the face if I tried to shoot it. And it’s probably twenty pounds if it’s an ounce. That would be really heavy for a rifle, let alone a pistol.”

“Huh,” I said, marveling at the gun. “It’s double-action. The trigger shoots and turns the cylinder.”

“I know. I couldn’t pull it. Can you?”

I closed the gun cylinder and pulled the trigger. The cylinder turned and we could hear the clank of the dual hammers dropping inside the gun. So it was basically a three-shot pistol that fired two shotgun shells at each pull.

“Hank. You’re maybe the only person on this space station that could use that. Maybe Frank was saving it as a gift for you,” MTB offered, clearly trying to soften the image of my uncle.

“I doubt it. He was probably going to shoot me with it.”

“Frank wasn’t a shotgun kind of guy. He used precision weapons—I’ve seen plenty of his handiwork. He had way better aim…”

“Than me?” I finished.

“Well, yeah. He wasn’t as big, and—you know—slow.”

I looked at the gun. It really did fit me and my personality and my limited firearms skills. MTB was right in that not a lot of people would want to be firing a double-barrel sawed-off shotgun with one hand. An extremely heavy pistol might weigh seven pounds. This was almost triple that weight. And the recoil would be enough that most people would injure their hands and be unable to hold onto it.

It was believable that this gun was intended for me. But I just wasn’t ready to accept that Frank was ever going to give me something.

“He probably stole it from a giant and was waiting for the opportunity to sell it to me,” I said.

It was at this point that several men began shooting at us through the hole I had made in the wall.





CHAPTER 5


Bad, Bad Guys



It was easy to spot the evolutionary differences between MTB and myself.

When a few guys started firing their guns at us haphazardly through a hole I had kicked in the wall, I stood there trying to figure out what was going on. Because I was bulletproof and flame resistant and my greatest fear, while living on a space station filled with dangerous criminals, was running out of food. MTB, however, had survived this long as a police officer by developing a healthy distrust of high-velocity projectiles.

He dove for cover so fast I think he created a small sonic boom.

Fortunately for us, three guys trying to simultaneously shoot through a small opening, into an apartment stacked to the ceiling with stolen goods, was not particularly dangerous.

It was for them, however. These walls may not be able to deflect bullets, but they could sure as hell deflect noise. Firing guns in a narrow hallway designed for tenant privacy was an excellent way to permanently damage your hearing.

After the first excited flurry of bullets, things quickly tapered off as they realized they had no chance of hitting anything except piles of dismantled plumbing and their brains complained about 120 decibel soundwaves bouncing back at them.

I was still holding Frank’s awesome shotgun. But it had no ammunition.

“MTB, you got any shotgun shells?” I asked. I wasn’t exactly sure where he was at this point.

“No!” he hissed, from somewhere off in the corner.

At this point in my life, I was somewhat in between guns. It’s not that I was against firearms or people using them. They were remarkable tools. In fact, if you wanted to shoot someone, there was pretty much nothing better. It takes a decade of practice to become proficient enough with a bow and arrow that you could actually kill anything using them. But complete novices kill people with guns all the time—often by accident.

But contrary to popular belief, guns tended to escalate any given confrontation. And that’s because intelligent creatures react and respond to their environments. Kind of like, if it’s cold outside, people will either stay in or put on jackets. And if it’s always cold, they will either move someplace warmer, or get a whole wardrobe of warm clothes to deal with it.

If you wave around a gun, people are going to respond by either backing down or doing the weapon equivalent of putting on a winter coat. And when everyone has guns and they’re waving them all the time, that becomes your new living condition. Encounters which had once led to arguments or fist fights morph into neighborhood-encompassing shootouts.

I typically wasn’t hired to be a commando. Garm could hire a thousand professional commandoes with boots and salutes and all sorts of professional commando things. I was hired to get people to not use their guns. Besides, I had really bad aim and everyone knew that. So me “waving around a gun” was pretty much a spot-on representation.

Logically, I knew how to aim a gun. I just couldn’t do it. Maybe it was a consequence of my mutation or my laziness was so profound it only permitted me to aim in the general direction of a target before I pulled the trigger.

After I accidentally shot my second—or sixth—innocent bystander last year, MTB gave me a friendly talk and suggested I stop carrying weapons capable of blasting the wrong people—which was pretty much every gun in existence. Either that, or I had to wear a siren and flashing light on my head. And I really didn’t want to do that.

But now that people were actually shooting at me, I felt tremendously unprepared.

“Hey, MTB. Go in the bathroom and hide in the tub. I’m going to open the door.”

I felt the time for negotiation had passed. These guys had opened fire without a word, so it was clear they weren’t reasonable fellows looking for a robust exchange of ideas.

We had not disarmed the plastic explosives on the door. We had simply gone around them. And while I did not relish being ground zero at Frank’s booby trap, I couldn’t readily fight my way out of this jam using my charm and an unloaded shotgun. While I might be able to get out of here in one piece, MTB was trapped. Even if he called for his police backup, it would take them ten minutes to get here.

“I can’t make it. Cover me,” MTB said.

“Cover you with what?” I asked.

But he was right. To make it to the bathroom he’d have to move in clear view of the hole and hope no one shot him. Which was a very unreasonable hope given what we had already seen.

I searched around for something to use. I saw a case of booze by my feet which grabbed my attention.

“Zero calorie hard liquor. Hey, MTB, you ever had this?” I asked, holding up a bottle. But MTB was stubbornly hiding.

I twisted off the top and took a sip and immediately spat it out.

“Oh, man, that’s horrible. Tastes like a robot puked in my mouth. So many chemicals. Ugh!”

“Hank!” MTB tried to remind me.

“Right. Right. I’ll stand in front of the hole,” I said, and moved over to block the sight of MTB moving. But he didn’t move.

“What are you waiting for?” I asked.

“Making sure it’s clear,” he whispered.

“It’s not clear. Unless that’s the Wall Shooting Gang and they’re off to find their next wall, they’re still out there,” I said.

MTB grumbled and cursed and dashed behind me and up the hall and into the bathroom. If I had blinked, I would have missed him. Everyone’s so damn fast.

“Okay, guys. I’m coming out,” I yelled at the hole. “I have just one request: Eat suck, suckfaces!”

I threw open the door and five guns began shooting like I was handing out refunds for every bullet that hit me.

“Ow! Ow. Ow,” I said, shielding my face with my hand. I looked up at the non-exploded door. I closed it. Opened it. I poked at the wad of plastic explosives above me. “Ow. Ow. Well, this is embarrassing.”

I stepped back inside and closed the door. While I could survive being shot, it sure wasn’t comfortable. Especially at this range.

The good news was, they probably couldn’t hear my stupid slogan because they had to be completely deaf at this point. Just standing in that hall for a few moments was enough to hurt my ears.

“Didn’t work, MTB,” I called down the hall.

“He didn’t booby trap himself in here,” MTB said.

Oh, yeah. If me opening the door from the inside would set off the bomb, it would have killed Frank. I looked at the setup and locked the door. If anything would arm the bomb, that was it.

I then took the crate of alcohol and stuffed it in the hole. I felt that was the most dangerous item in the apartment. If they stopped and drank it, they might even die. I then piled up whatever I could find behind it. Toilets. Pipes. Bolts of cloth. A few bicycles.

“Head for the window!” I shouted at the hole.

I had to shout because they probably couldn’t hear me. It was a silly gesture. Not because I was shouting, but because the building had no windows.

Earlier Belvaille incarnations had windows. But windows served a specific set of purposes. Let in sunlight, which the city didn’t have because it didn’t orbit a star. Provide a view, which the city didn’t have because it was a metal city in space. Or have the occupants feel less cooped up. And if you were capable of feeling even remotely claustrophobic, you would not have survived the months in a spaceship it took to reach Belvaille.

Fires didn’t exist on Belvaille. Not for long. The space station could completely control every aspect of the environment. Up to and including removing gravity, completely removing air, and making the temperature a hair above absolute zero. No one needed to escape fires through windows. Any flame larger than a match triggered an automated defense so overpowering that fire was now boycotting the city.

While I—and MTB—knew this building had no windows, I was hoping the deaf guys in the hall weren’t aware of that and would want to prevent our escape. Unblocking the hole would require them to kick and push junk out of the way and then crawl through like we did. Which was a risky move if you suspected the occupants had guns—or even a hammer to bonk them on the heads.

I picked up the map I found in the bathroom and the revolver shotgun and moved to the kitchen which was the furthest room from the front door. If I was going to wait for them, I was at least going to see if I could find something to eat.

Behind me, there were a few desultory gunshots. They were probably shooting at the alcohol—which would only serve to make it angry.

A long pause was followed immediately by an explosion. I had been sniffing at a container of take-out food when the concussive blast knocked me on my butt.

I was pretty surprised. Not only by the size of the explosion, but by the persistence of the Wall Shooting Gang.

I picked myself up and looked down the hall. MTB stuck his head out of the bathroom and stared at me in astonishment.

“Frank could sure make traps, huh?” I asked.

“Are you eating?” he asked me.

“There’s not enough for both of us,” I explained, holding the take-out closer to my chest. “Frank apparently stole everything except kitchen supplies.”

“Should we check on them?”

“Our only other option is to live here forever. So, yeah,” I said, walking past the bathroom.

The main room had been absolutely demolished. The entire wall I had partially kicked had been blown out. Not only that, but the far wall had also been erased, providing a clear view of the building next door. Now we had a window. All the stolen junk had been turned into actual junk or whooshed out into the street.

MTB’s bathroom was the first room that wasn’t destroyed and he missed getting killed by about 4 feet. If the bomb had triggered when I opened the door like a fool, I would have been smacked down four stories to the ground floor. If I managed to survive, I would not be a happy individual.

Three bodies were in the hallway. Two were entirely gone—either blown out the wall with the junk, or blown out of existence.

We gingerly moved amongst the carnage. MTB had his handgun out, ready to shoot anyone that miraculously survived what seemed like an atomic blast.

“Stop eating,” MTB hissed at me.

“Why?”

Our attackers were spaced far apart. It was unclear if they started that way or the explosion moved them. They seemed to be wearing similar-style outfits, befitting members of the same gang. Each was equipped with a fully enclosed helmet.

The last bit was not unusual. I’d guess about 40% of the occupants on Belvaille wore at least one item of personalized life support. Although the space station was climate-controlled and fairly standard Colmarian environment, 50,000 species were still 50,000 species. The reason only 40% wore life support was because if Belvaille was so alien to your lungs or skin or eyes or mucous antennae nodules that you needed a full bubble enclosure, then you didn’t bother coming to Belvaille. Much like I didn’t reside on a liquid hydrogen planet. Because I didn’t want my underwear constantly soaked.

“Hank. Look at that,” MTB said.

I heard a sizzling. A kind of high-pitch popping and crackling.

The bodies of the Wall Shooting Gang began to kind of…unfocus. Like blur.

They then began to shrink, flip themselves around, and vanish.

MTB stood gawking. Not even on Belvaille was it commonplace to experience a partial building demolition and witness several people slowly disintegrate.

“Stop eating!” MTB demanded.

“Why?”





CHAPTER 6


Home Again, Home Again, Jiggity Jig



It’s a terrible burden to not only find your true passion but to succeed at it. If it happens too early in your life.

Like a band that has a couple hit songs and for the rest of their existence they have to play those same tracks over and over even though they were composed when they were young and drunk and have no meaning to them now that they’re approaching senility. Or some super athlete who broke a ton of records and has to spend the remainder of their life reminiscing about it with strangers in order to make a living.

Hell, even if you discover you’re merely a decent salesperson. If you did it long enough, at some point you’re going to get burnt out and bored and if you try and do anything else, you’re always going to know you’re not nearly as good at this new occupation as you are at sales.

At what point do you give up being great, or even good, just for variety?

If you never find your passion, or hidden talent, then you’ll never have to make that choice.

People think it’s terrible to not discover your true calling, but I disagree. That’s a life of endless adventure. You get to be a fisherman one year, a dancer another, go back to school and get your tenth doctorate, whatever. Get to reinvent yourself every so often and give it a whirl. In the end, you might not find out you were destined to be the best underwater ice sculptor that ever lived, but you get to go to your grave with a sack of amazing memories.

Being fulfilled isn’t the destination. If it was, then once you reached it, you’d better hope you immediately die of a heart attack, because it’s all downhill after that.

Personally, I found my passion—and what I’m best at—fairly early in life. Clearly, it wasn’t getting to the point in a concise manner.

No, what I’m really good at is negotiating with asshole criminals and beating them up if that doesn’t work out. It’s not just my mutations that make me good at it—though they certainly help. I simply have a real knack for dealing with jerks. I’m not bragging when I say that, because how could that possibly be considered a boast?

But I often wonder if I wouldn’t be better at something else. I’ve been cracking skulls for so long maybe I would actually be better at cracking something else. Like shellfish. I don’t know, something.

As a test, I took a bunch of time and studied up on high finance. I dealt with gang deals all the time—complex trades and orders that are the livelihood of Belvaille. I reasoned that I could put those same skills to work in the realm of intergalactic portfolio management.

And of course, I lost all my money.

Which is why my apartment was just outside the port. It was actually slightly within the port infrastructure and was a converted warehouse. Well, not very converted. It was still a warehouse. But I slept in it, as well. I suppose you could say I was more converted than the warehouse.

I would have been really hard-up economically if not for my butler, Cliston. Calling him my butler was a misnomer. But he liked being referred to as that, so who am I to call him anything else?

Cliston was my friend, my confidante, and the major breadwinner in our little family unit. Cliston was a Dredel Led robot and he was well over 10,000 years old. He was a sentient machine made of metal—which seemed pretty crazy. But as my scientist friend Delovoa pointed out, it was pretty crazy that there was a sentient anything made out of anything—and no version was any stranger than another.

Cliston, it could reasonably be argued, was the best butler in the galaxy.

Normally, we split our earnings. What I made doing Hank stuff and what he made doing normal stuff.

Cliston pretty much had universal knowledge on anything a butler should be familiar with. Which was like all the soft sub-sciences. For example, not art, but art appreciation. Not music, but musical arrangement. Not management, but organizational restructuring with an emphasis on biogenesis.

Cliston had wanted to move to our warehouse, not only because it was cheaper than our old apartments, but also to host his many classes. And since Cliston was currently making all our money, this was where we lived.

Which was fine.

Cliston had started teaching a class on cooking about five years ago. And chefs and restauranteurs from across the galaxy flocked to our non-little warehouse-home to take part. It was so staggeringly popular that people had been murdered trying to either get access to the limited seating or prevent competitors from participating.

It wasn’t “just” cooking. He taught food budgeting. Food maintenance. Food recognition. Food everything. The competitive advantage his class provided to restaurants was enough to formally create two tiers of eateries on Belvaille: those who had gone to Cliston’s class and those who hadn’t. With the have-nots quickly going out of business.

The class was so successful he added a class on eating. You might think everyone knows how to eat, right? Which totally sounds like me believing I knew high finance.

Cliston tailored the eating class to each participant. So he’d teach you how to properly prep your taste buds—or whatever gustatory system a particular species had. Facilitate digestion, expulsion, and all sorts of stuff before, during, and after.

Of course, I actually did know a lot about food. Not least of all because Cliston had been my personal butler for so long. So he invited me now and then to be a guest speaker in the Eater Series of panels. But I wasn’t really good at teaching. All my jokes and anecdotes involved people dying, which messed up people’s appetites.

When I entered the warehouse, a class was in session and forty-five cooks were busy doing their things. Cliston announced my arrival to the class and they all stopped and gawked at me. He must have mentioned me to them earlier.

“Sir, would you care to sample what the class is preparing?” he asked me in his perfect robot enunciation.

“No thanks, Cliston. I’m tired. Hey, everyone.” I waved. The food smelled good, but students were no Clistons. And why settle for second best if you didn’t have to?

Cliston was a gold-colored robot. His face, and its frozen, metallic features, appeared like a jowly Colmarian male who was profoundly snooty—for good reason. His eyes were red, glowing orbs, and his mouth was a flappy hinge-thing purely for decoration. His torso was barrel-shaped, with an embossed suit and tie. His arms and legs were dexterous, multi-directional tools capable of fantastic speeds. But it was his hands and fingers that were truly amazing, capable of dicing at the microscopic level, while simultaneously dealing cards to an auditorium of poker players.

Cliston could not only simulate the senses of taste and smell for every species in the galaxy, he could combine them in disparate ways. So he could have the equivalent of fish-gill-lip things of a Snagsnorkian and also the taste rings of a floating Naxle pod—just in case those species should ever impossibly procreate. Or if he wanted to serve a single dish to fifty different alien races and have them all enjoy it.

He was not only a better cook than anyone, he was a better eater. I guess you could say he was a better taster, since he didn’t actually have a digestive system.

The existence of Cliston was why I would never cook. Because I was painfully aware I would never be even 1% as good a chef as Cliston, so why bother?

Despite having access to the galaxy’s best cook, I ate out often. We had reached an agreement that Cliston would only prepare one meal a day. This allowed him enough time to do other pursuits and keep money coming in.

So I made use of the many restaurants on Belvaille. The last time a cook had the nerve to ask me how his food compared to Cliston’s, I punched him on the side of the head. Belvaille food was merely to survive. Attempting to compare Belvaille’s slop kitchens to Cliston’s masterpieces was heresy of the highest order.

However…I needed a break. I needed to turn my brain off after witnessing some gang members turn themselves inside out and vanish. And if it wasn’t completely obvious, a side effect of my mutation was I needed to eat.

A lot.

After being shot twenty times, I needed to eat more than usual so my ramped-up mutant regeneration could erase all those contusions and broken blood vessels.

“On second thought, Cliston, I’d be honored to assist your class. What foods should I sample first?” I asked the warehouse.





CHAPTER 7


Brains



“The mechanics of this weapon are simple. The specs are so insane that if I were to see a blueprint of this, I would assume it was a practical joke not intended to actually be manufactured,” Delovoa said.

“I knew you’d crap all over it just because you didn’t make it,” I said.

Delovoa was the smartest guy I knew. He was a mutant with three eyes, three brains, and a tendency toward mad scientist ideals and activities. He was one of my best, and oldest, friends—which always saddened me to think about. He couldn’t be considered a classic sociopath because he didn’t care about his own safety or well-being any more than he cared about anyone else’s.

He was evaluating the shotgun MTB had found at Frank’s. One of the main ways Delovoa made his money was by selling armaments to Belvaille’s many factions.

Shipping items to our city was expensive. So if you only needed twelve guns, you’d have to swipe them from a cargo of a billion weapons heading to some far-flung civil war—and settle for whatever was available—or manufacture a custom job directly on the space station.

“Let me finish,” Delovoa scolded me. “The only thing remarkable about this weapon is its metallurgy. It has layers of tungsten alloy, uranium hexafloride, and tantalum carbide. This is why it’s so absurdly heavy. But it’s almost entirely corrosion resistant, scratch resistant, and it would be unharmed sitting in the center of an active volcano. In fact, after we’re dead and dust, and our dust feeds some trees, and those trees burn down and are used to make mulch, and that mulch is used as fertilizer for crops, when they’re digging up the 100th year harvest of that crop, they will find this foolish gun exactly the same as it is now.”

“Those handles are sapphires, too,” I said proudly.

“Yes. Those, and the screws holding them in place, are the only weaknesses on this gun. Not that they’re very weak, but they’re orders of magnitude more fragile than the rest of the weapon,” Delovoa stated.

“MTB said they were worth two grand,” I countered.

“Really? You think you can find someone willing to pay 2,000 credits for decorative handle plates that only fit on a ridiculous gun that no one can use?”

“I can use it. I mean, I think I can. What do you recommend?” I asked.

“Yeah, you’re about the only one. But even still, the barrels are quite stumpy. Even for a sawed-off. With regular buckshot, at fifteen feet, your spread is going to be about three feet diameter. Which means you’re almost always shooting at two people—even if you’re only aiming at one. Past fifteen feet, it gets much worse,” he said.

“I’m usually indoors. Fifteen feet is far. But I get what you’re saying.”

“Not only that, but the barrels aren’t long enough to burn the gunpowder. So the power, accuracy, and range is going to be substandard. What I can do, is make some faster-burning shells for you. Normally, that would be impossible. It would blow apart the gun and/or knock the person using it on their ass. But this gun would be fine and you’re so heavy you wouldn’t even notice.”

“You mentioned uranium. Am I going to get cancer using it?” I asked.

“It’s very mildly radioactive. And your mutation can already cure most diseases. You’ll have a tough time getting past any rigorous security scanners, but unless they’re blind, they’re going to notice you’re carrying a shotgun and whether it’s radioactive or not won’t be the issue.”

“How much do those custom shells cost?” I asked.

“10% more than regular. I’ll just mix a little rifle-type gunpowder with the slower-burning shotgun powder.”

“Will that make it more accurate?”

“Not really. It’s not meant to be accurate—you’re firing two sawed-off shotgun barrels at once. And you can’t aim worth a damn, anyway,” he said.

“I know. What about the stuff I sent you on Frank?” I asked.

“I’m sorry your uncle died,” he said flatly.

“I’m sick of everyone giving me condolences.”

“I’m not giving you condolences. I said I was sorry he died. He owed me money,” Delovoa clarified.

“How could you loan him anything? Frank was the least trustworthy person in the galaxy.”

“I didn’t loan him a single credit. I sold him a gun. I’ve sold him a hundred guns and he always paid me back,” Delovoa replied.

“Was it this gun?” I asked about the shotgun.

“Why would I conduct a microscopic evaluation on my own gun? No. I didn’t make that, idiot.”

“What did you make for Frank?”

“It was a single-shot rifle.”

“That’s it. Nothing special?” I asked.

“Of course it was special. I designed it. He gave me the requirements: it had to penetrate two inches of steel plating at 1000 yards. It needed telescopic sighting but did not have to allow for windage. So presumably it was to be used on this space station—or somewhere else without significant weather disruptions.”

“Wow. That’s long-range,” I said.

“Yes.”

“Did he tell you what he was shooting?”

“No. Why would I care?” Delovoa asked.

“Alright. How about what Muck-Mock told me? Frank was dead because like his guts had been turned around and shrunken.”

“I like Muck-Mock. I buy corpses from him all the time. But he’s not exactly a scientist. He probably just misplaced some of your uncle,” Delovoa explained.

Sometimes it was easy to forget how scary Delovoa was because of his effeminate and harmless nature. But Delovoa was about my age. And whatever his sub-species of Colmarian was, they were apparently not naturally long-lived. And he furthermore didn’t have my mutation knocking away diseases and old age.

Delovoa’s body was entirely custom-built by himself. At this point, probably no portion of his body was original. That meant he had replaced his bones, his eyes, his teeth, his brains, etc., many, many times. And he had done it all without assistance. The only help he got, willing or otherwise, was acquiring the replacement parts from others.

Learning that Delovoa had been shopping at the morgue shouldn’t be surprising to me, but somehow it was.

“MTB and I fought with some goons at my uncle’s apartment,” I began.

“So?”

“So when my uncle’s door exploded, all the bodies kind of…” I trailed off, twiddling my fingers in the air.

“They did what? Played the piano?”

“No. They sort of…shew,” I said. Making my impression of a body dissolving in midair and evaporating.

“The corpses made sound effects? They failed a class in pantomime? What?” Delovoa prompted, annoyed.

“They did what Muck-Mock said. They kind of dissolved. But like, backwards. And in the air. I don’t know. I’m not a technical guy.”

“Clearly. But what you’re describing violates at least two laws of nature—and a half-dozen local ordinances. Did you breathe in these ‘evaporated’ bodies?”

“I’m not sure. I didn’t think about it,” I said, alarmed.

“Well? Did it smell like dissolved gangster? I’d think even you would notice that.”

“There was a whole lot of smells going on. A bomb had just blown out a couple apartment walls.”

“Oh, that was you guys! I heard that. Something that loud, I figured you had just fallen down a few stairs.”

“That’s pretty funny stuff. So what could evaporate those bodies and turn part of my uncle’s insides around?” I asked.

“Magic.”

“You mean like Boranjame?” I asked. The Boranjame were the most powerful empire in the galaxy. Their entire race was composed of only a few dozen or so godlike beings that flew around in spaceships the size of planets.

“No, I mean don’t worry about it because you’ll never figure it out,” Delovoa said.

“That’s not a very scientific answer.”

Delovoa shrugged his thin, stolen shoulder blades.

“You know I work on the Portals, right?” he asked.

“Yeah. It’s why people let you live despite being a lunatic.”

“I have all sorts of devices and machines and electronics out in those Portals. Thousands of my inventions that I placed there over the centuries to help space travel.”

“If this is leading up to another fat joke, I’m going to slap your third eye off,” I warned.

“Every single one of my devices stopped working. Poof. Gone.”

“What? Yesterday?” I asked.

“No, no. This was maybe six months ago.”

“Why didn’t I hear about this?”

Delovoa laughed.

“What would you possibly do about it? Eat a Portal?”

I considered whether that was a fat joke and if I should slap Delovoa. He hastily continued.

“I’m one of the foremost experts on Portal technology. I’m contacted almost daily by dullards across the galaxy asking for my advice on how to improve their local versions.”

“So?”

“So all my inventions are just glue and gears that sit above or below the Portals. I don’t actually change the Portals, because I don’t understand them. No one does. That is Thad Elon technology,” Delovoa said.

“I thought the Colmarian Confederation made Portals.”

Delovoa snorted.

“No. They just use them—same as every other empire. When they’re feeling pissy they might re-angle or move them and isolate some part of the galaxy. Or they might even blow them up,” Delovoa explained.

“So, you think the government came and took away all your gadgets?” I asked, confused.

“No. Not even the most thorough team of engineers could possibly find everything I ever created and remove them all simultaneously without me detecting them. And even if they could, why would they? No, something disabled them.”

“Are you saying it’s the same thing that evaporated the thugs?” I asked, still not understanding.

“No, Hank. What I’m getting at is there are forces at work in the universe we don’t comprehend and it’s not worth our time to try and comprehend them because we can’t.”

“That is the least scientific thing I’ve ever heard! That’s like something I would say. In fact, I probably did say it a bunch of times and I just forgot, because it’s so stupid.”

“If I’m presented with some evidence, I can evaluate it. But I’ve worked on those Portals for damn near a millennia and I’m no closer to figuring them out. Nothing that I know of could remove all my electronics, mechanics, cameras, sensors, computers, and robots in one moment. And I could waste another thousand years trying to figure it out and be exactly where I am now.”

“What’s this have to do with Frank?” I demanded.

“Something turned your crap bird of an uncle inside out. And it was something that normal science can’t explain. And by normal, I mean possible. If you have actual data, samples, readings, scans, and a signed confession from an evil wizard, then we’ll be able to properly proceed. But right now, you have an unexplained and unexplainable phenomenon like the Portals being scrubbed free of patented Delovoa goodness—or like the Portals working at all. You can keep wringing your hands or you can get to work replacing what you lost and bill the appropriate person or persons for your efforts.”

“Huh? I’m not looking to replace my uncle.”

“Good. Then you’re already done,” Delovoa said.

“I came to you for technical advice.”

“I know you did. And I said it is either not technical or so far beyond my learning that it might as well be magic. Probably a billion scientists across the galaxy spent their entire lives trying to figure out the Portals, and they died just as clueless as when they began. Don’t worry about stuff you can’t possibly understand.”

“This seems like something I should be worried about. People have died or been evaporated because of it.”

“Then wrap three layers of tin foil around your chest and apply five layers of UV-blocking lotion,” Delovoa said.

“What will that do?”

“It will do exactly what you’re doing now: make you waste time and effort and stress on something you can’t unravel,” he said calmly.

“How can I get you the evidence you need?”

“Next time someone is about to be evaporated tell them to hold on and we’ll run over and set up lab equipment. Are we done here?”

“You’re not helping me.”

“I am. I told you not to waste your time. Yet you keep wasting your time and my time despite my clear instructions. Do you know who created the universe?”

“No,” I said, concerned what he was about to lay on me.

“Neither do I! And you know how much effort I expend dwelling on something I can’t possibly uncover? None! Now go home. I’ll make you some shotgun shells and send them over.”





CHAPTER 8


The Formerly Known Club



I headed over to the Club.

It had once been called the Belvaille Gentlemen’s Club. Then the Belvaille Athletic Gentlemen’s Club. Then the Belvaille Gentle Club. The Gent Club. Then merely, The Club. Now there was just a big hole where the sign used to be because some idiot with a missile got tired of all the name changes.

The idiot in question looked a lot like me. But it was also because they had raised their prices for food and I found that unacceptable. After the missile, the prices came back down.

You might think that’s a terrible, passive-aggressive way to register my displeasure in a company’s policies. But in my significant experience, people with missiles are the ones who get to set the rules for what is fair and unfair. And if you don’t like their suggestions, you either have to get your own missile or get gone.

The Club was the oldest private establishment on Belvaille and it catered to criminals. But at this point, that was redundant. Every store, restaurant, electrical power plant, senior citizen’s home, and morgue catered to criminals.

The Navy was here in force on Belvaille, but they segregated themselves so completely you’d think they didn’t want to have anything to do with the rest of us. And you’d be right to think that.

But the Club had membership requirements and rules. Not a lot of either, but you were pretty safe inside, which was more than can be said for the laundromats that catered to criminals.

That’s not to say no one ever got shot or stabbed or beaten up here. But there was only maybe one or two serious altercations a month. Which practically made it a Temple of Universal Peace compared to the rest of the city.

I was wary of setting foot inside, because I figured a lot of people were mad at me over a lot of things. But I needed answers.

And I needed food.

While the Club didn’t have the best menu in the galaxy, or even the space station, they made really good pretzels and donuts. I mean really good. There was just something about criminals munching on salty and sweet snack foods that lowered the level of overall hostility. Two rivals might suddenly find themselves squared off and they just couldn’t bring themselves to blast one another when they had candy sprinkles on their faces.

Of course, there were also alcohol and drugs. But they would usually cut people off before they got too messed up. Or, more likely, the rest of the patrons would.

I went in and looked for a good place to sit. The building was ten stories of original design. So it was almost solid steel with foot-thick walls. The place made you feel safe—except for all the psychopathic criminals carrying weapons and drinking booze.

I sat down at a corner table on the first floor. The elevators generally had trouble carrying me up and stairs were a hassle. These were common tables, twenty feet long. The rest of the people who had been sitting here took a moment and got up and left. That wasn’t so much because they didn’t want to be near me, they just knew I ate a lot and some people found my habits uncomfortable or whatever.

One of the waiters came by and immediately dropped a tray of about a hundred pretzels in front of me along with a small keg of beer.

“Here you go, Hank,” the thin, lizard-like woman said.

“Not today, Greeka. I’m thinking frosted donuts. Heavy on the frosting,” I said.

“Oh, bad news?” she asked.

“All news is bad to someone,” I replied.

“How about I just leave these pretzels here for a minute and go get the donuts? They’ll have to cook them up special. We don’t have that many ready yet,” she said.

“That’s fine. But I really feel like some donuts,” I said, casually eating two pretzels without noticing.

“You got it. What color frosting you want? We just added ‘rainbow’ and ‘black hole’ varieties.”

“Never seen a rainbow,” I mused, having lived in some version of space almost my entire existence. “I’ll do that.”

“Just want to point out, hon: they’re only donuts. I don’t want you to get disappointed because they aren’t actually rainbows.”

“I know,” I said, finishing off my fifth or eighth pretzel. “I’m sure they’ll be great.”

Greeka did her best flirty wink, which was to lick both her eyeballs with her blue tongue. Some guys—or things—found that sexy. Didn’t do a lot for me, but I paused mid-pretzel upon the display.

It wasn’t ten seconds later when it began.

“Hank,” a loud voice bellowed behind me.

“Can’t a guy get a moment of quiet introspection while he waits for his donuts?” I said, my exasperation causing chunks of partially chewed pretzel to land all over the table in front of me.

Cliston had worked tirelessly to improve my eating etiquette. But even the greatest butler in the galaxy had more or less recognized it was a lost cause. I had to eat a fantastic amount of food and while my mouth was maybe slightly bigger than the average big mouth, I couldn’t spend a lot of time on niceties and still cram down enough calories to survive.

In consequence, there tended to be a kind of food haze around me as I partook in my sustenance.

And Colmarians were an accepting empire. We had to be, with so many species. Greeka just licked half her face. Some species had exposed…everything. Anything and everything you would not normally think of as being exposed was sitting out in the open on some races. From bronchial passages to butts.

Once you set foot in space, you had to modify your preconceptions of decorum and vulgarity.

The man who yelled at me walked over to my table and stopped next to me.

“Thad Elon, you’re a slob,” he said.

“I’m an alien with different conceptions of eating,” I countered.

“Damn. You just spit half the damn pretzels in the city all over my jacket! Stop chewing for a second,” he demanded.

“You don’t define my eating habits,” I said defiantly. This outburst caused him to back away from the haze.

The man I was speaking at was a burly boss named Magger Nastashin. He was involved in the Skim, and specifically, like…step three. Which meant he and his people were out there on the actual cargo ships doing their part.

“Your boy needs to get his ass in action or we’re going to slit his face,” Magger demanded.

“You’re not going to let me finish my donuts, are you?” I asked.

“Those are pretzels, fool.”

“Yeah, but my donuts are coming. What boy are you talking about? Sheva?” I asked.

“No, Delovoa.”

Of all the possible names that might have been said, I wasn’t expecting that one.

“What does Delovoa have to do with anything?”

“He turned off all his gimmicks on the Portals. Ships all been smacking into each other. It’s chaos,” a woman said behind me.

She was a robust woman named Cateese and she had the largest set of thighs on the space station—not counting me. She was a short woman and her legs formed an inverted V. She had to get around by using her ankles because her legs couldn’t bend.

“Don’t be sneaking up on me. Get where I can see you. Delovoa did what?” I asked her.

“I’m not standing near your mouth,” she said. “Delovoa turned off all his equipment and we got a backlog of ships. We’re pushing into three months behind schedule.”

“He didn’t do it. Why would he turn off every single thing he invented over the last thousand years?” I asked.

“Because he got a sweet contract from the Navy to put it all back. 100 million credits,” Magger said.

I spit out a few pretzels.

“100 million? Are you nuts? Why not 100 bajillion zillion? The Navy isn’t going to pay a lowlife like him that much. They barely put up with him as it is. They’re not going to make him the richest weirdo in the sector,” I said.

“It’s 100 million,” Magger said, folding his thick arms.

“You can’t have him pulling the plug like this,” Cateese said. “The Skim works on a tight schedule. The ships that were going to offload what we stole can’t just sit around waiting for months.”

“Delovoa doesn’t work for me. And he’s not clever enough to come up with a plan like this to hold the Navy hostage,” I said.

“He’s a scientist. You’re saying he’s an idiot they allow to work on the Portals?” Magger asked.

“Yeah, he’s super smart. He’s not clever. When has Delovoa done anything, anything at all, with the scams and schemes of Belvaille?” I asked.

I could see my interrogators were drawing a blank.

“Exactly. He wouldn’t know a blackmail from an embezzlement,” I said.

“He’d learn for 100 million,” Magger said.

“That’s stupid. No one is getting that kind of cash for anything. And Delovoa might not be clever, but he’s not so suicidal the first scam he tries to pull is to ransom the Colmarian Navy. You know, the guys sitting out there with like 500 warships and millions of troops. The best and brightest criminals on Belvaille avoid the Navy. And you’re trying to tell me he went out there and wrecked all his gear on all those Portals…for extortion?” I asked.

There was a pause in my interrogation.

“Well…” Cateese began. “You really need to get him to fix that stuff fast. This is our livelihood, Hank.”

“Why didn’t you start with that? Come over here and chew me out while I’m having a snack. Is that how you run your business?” I asked.

“I’m about to go bust. Half my people are leaving the station because they’re not getting paid,” Magger added.

“See? That’s something I can work with. But you come over here and think you can force me to force Delovoa to get brainy on demand? The guy chops up his own body for fun. You can’t threaten him,” I said.

“Can you at least talk to him, Hank?” Cateese asked.

“I did. But it’s Portals. It’s not like patching a busted toilet. I’ll get with him and—” I started, but I was caught short.

Two men walked into my view wearing almost identical outfits as the goons who attacked me and MTB at my uncle’s.

“Hey!” I yelled. “Who let you in here?”

I began to stand up and Cateese and Magger quickly moved to safety. They were right to be cautious, because my foot caught on the table and I fell down. If it wasn’t for the heavy-duty steel floors, I would have fallen into the basement—if this building had a basement. Which it didn’t.

I scrambled to my feet as quickly as possible, which wasn’t very quick, and was prepared to continue my verbal assault, but the men had ignored me and walked off.

“Where’d they go?” I asked.

I scanned the room for respondents but everyone was intently interested in all things other than me.

“You all are terrible actors. Suddenly you’re the type of people to mind your own business? That’s convenient,” I said.

Using my detective skills, I figured the gang members went upstairs. I went in pursuit, but turned back.

“Hey Magger, tell my donuts I’m on the second floor,” I said.

The man’s face twisted and pruned like I was asking him to give me his daughter to use as target practice. But he cooled after a moment.

“Fine. Just this once,” he said.

“Oh, yeah, huge favor I’m asking,” I said, beginning my climb.

About halfway to the second floor, I encountered some men rushing down, hogging the middle of the stairs.

“Move,” I huffed.

“Sorry, Hank,” they said, pressing to the side. “You might want to get out. We think there was an earthquake.”

“It’s a space station, man. There’s no earthquakes. Oh,” I said, remembering my fall from the table. “I know what you’re talking about. It was nothing.”

The men exchanged glances and let me slowly pass.

“You need…” one of them began, but trailed off. “See you, Hank.”

I mumbled a reply. It was so stupid to have a building this tall.

On the second floor I stopped to catch my breath and take a look around. Each floor of the club had a different layout. It was no small feat to cut down the inner walls of the building and what would be the point? This floor had numerous smaller rooms unlike the relatively open floorplan downstairs.

I thought I spotted the back of one of their life support helmets and went in pursuit.

“Hey, Hank,” about a dozen people called out to me on my journey across the room. “Hey,” being the most frequently used word on Belvaille by orders of magnitude. Some of the calls were tinged with alarm, some with concern, some with anger, some with greed. But I was on a mission.

“Not now,” I repeated, time after time.

I caught up to the two men, who appeared to be standing in line at one of the smaller, side bars.

“Hey,” I began, echoing Belvaille’s most useful word. “Who are you guys and what did you want with my uncle?”

The area around the men cleared. I was out of breath, out of food, and potentially facing off against the gang who had been responsible for Frank’s death and an attempt on my own life. No one was particularly interested in being in the crossfire.

The two men slowly turned around. They were of medium height and build. Their uniforms were similar, but different enough to show individual styles. The helmets were enclosed, but not particularly bulky. So whatever their life support needs, they weren’t incredibly different, or they would be hauling around a lot more equipment.

“I’m talking to you guys,” I said, pointing. “What did you know about Frank?”

The men made no movement at all. If they were concerned, they hid it extremely well.

It was at this point that several of the nearby rooms had their doors open and numerous carbon copies of these gang members began to file in.

I figured they were all from the same planet and were likely a single ship crew. Like a freighter. This was extremely common.

Belvaille could mix and match atmospheres and environments because it was a large city. But a spaceship tended to have a crew populated by either multiple species that could share the same life support, or the exact same species.

Because it was simply cost-prohibitive to have ten different unique climates on a spaceship where each one was toxic to the other. Each ship had its set life support, with some wiggle room in its parameters.

Like if I wanted to book transport across the galaxy, I was going to have to wait for a ship with my biological requirements. An aquatic ship crew wasn’t going to make some air-breathable environment just for one passenger. Even if the passenger was rich, it was simply too difficult.

So I figured this was all some local species who set off on a single ship. When they hit Belvaille, they took a contract that had to do with Frank.

“Oh, so there’s a whole family of you,” I began. “No problem. You guys already tried to blow me up before and I put five of you in the hole. Now I want some answers.”

The rooms kept emptying. More and more of the gang began to pour out. They were not on alert. They didn’t seem to be armed. But damn if there weren’t a lot of them.

“It’s going to take more than fifteen…twenty-two…thirty-ish guys to beat me,” I said, my voice losing a little confidence as their numbers seemed to approach infinity.

“Hey, Hank,” Podiver Vance said, stepping in front of me.

Podiver Vance was an enormously tall and skinny Colmarian. He must have been about ten foot, with arms that could about reach the floor. He resembled a huge spider that hadn’t eaten, ever.

“Hey, Pod,” I said, thankful for the distraction.

“I need to speak with you. It is urgent,” he said.

“Um. Yeah, alright,” I said.

He put his thin wrist around my shoulders and attempted to angle me to his private rooms. My little toe probably weighed as much as Podiver. If I had a crooked eyelash that was in my view, Podiver might well be invisible.

We weaved our way through the floor, with the tension evaporating at each step. I looked back briefly and the Wall Shooting Gang seemed to occupy half the building.

“You upstairs?” I asked, pausing at the staircase.

“I’m afraid so. Tenth floor,” he said.

“Ten? Why stop there? Might as well be in outer space,” I said, annoyed.

“You sure the elevators won’t take you? They have a freight car in the rear,” he said.

“We can try. Better stop at each floor to give the motors a break, though,” I said.

“Let’s try walking,” Podiver said, sounding concerned about a plummeting elevator. “We can talk on the way.”

It took us about an hour, but we finally reached the top. We didn’t do any talking on the way. Or at least I didn’t. He might have, but I didn’t hear him. The long-legged man could have probably walked up in one step.

It wasn’t that the top was good and the bottom bad or anything like that. People had their rooms, traded rooms, bought rooms. Each month it seemed to switch around. Sometimes the third floor was all the loan sharks. Sometimes, all the guys who liked a particular glocken sports team were on the sixth floor. It was hard to keep track.

Apparently, the second floor had been taken over by:

“The Cartel,” Podiver Vance said.

“Who?” I asked.

My donuts made it up here long before I did and they had paired them with a light wine that complemented the sweet bread quite well. Now that was service.

“The Cartel. They’re pushing into Belvaille. And it’s causing a fair amount of concern,” Podiver stated.

“What planet they come from?” I asked.

We were in Podiver’s private rooms. He had three large adjoining rooms on the top floor. Quite prestigious, if you didn’t mind the thin air at this altitude. If nothing else, it made sure that only those in peak physical shape could come visit him. Unless they could fit in the elevators—which was basically everyone except me.

“Hey,” I added. “Are you up here because of me?”

“Up where?”

“On the tenth floor getting a nosebleed. I’m the only one who can’t get up here,” I said.

“You’re up here now.”

“Yeah, but look at me,” I said, indicating my sweat-soaked clothes.

“No. The upper floors aren’t very popular. Everyone likes to be close to the exits. It was the cheapest place for me to get multiple rooms. When Arton Master passed away, this room became available,” Podiver said.

“He didn’t ‘pass away.’ He was shot in the nose.”

“Yeah, but then he passed away.”

“But you’re making it sound like he died in his sleep, surrounded by grandchildren and puppy dogs. Our kind of people don’t pass away,” I said.

“Sure they do. Maybe not in the olden days with a new gang war every month, but we can’t operate like that any longer. Not with the Navy in permanent residence.”

Podiver was a real old-school gangster. A gang boss whose fortunes had risen and fallen almost as much as mine. He had been a local fixture ever since I more or less blew up his first store.

“Alright, so about these Cartoon guys,” I said.

“Cartel. It means…I don’t know what it means. But they don’t operate on one planet. They operate across sectors. Thousands of planets!” Podiver said breathlessly.

I stared at the tall man. Or at least I stared at the bottom of his chin.

“That’s the biggest load of crap I’ve heard in a long time. They tell you that? That’s the oldest trick there is. They’re bragging about lies. If those guys are so hot, how did I personally kill ten of them already without even trying?” I said, bragging about my own lie.

“It’s not a lie. They must have been around for a long while but they’ve only recently started to come out in force around here. I had your uncle investigating them,” Podiver said.

“Frank? You had him chasing those guys? You probably got him killed.”

“You didn’t kill Frank?” Podiver asked sincerely.

“Me? No. I was his nephew.”

“You guys were always fighting.”

“Yeah, but not real fighting,” I said.

“He put you in the real hospital at least a few times that can I recall off the top of my head.”

“So does everyone,” I countered.

It was true. Despite me being extremely thick and difficult to kill and fast-healing, I spent an awful lot of time recuperating in the hospital. I actually had my own room, plaque and all, after centuries of being a loyal customer.

“Besides, he wasn’t ‘chasing’ them. I hired Frank to get information. You saw them downstairs, there’s an army of Cartel on Belvaille already. Imagine the power a criminal organization would have if it spanned entire sectors,” Podiver said.

“That’s stupid. Criminals don’t have a reach beyond the length of their arms. And usually not even that far. I mean, look at Belvaille. Every block is a different boss in charge. You’re telling me a gang can maintain control of their criminals across lightyears of space?” I asked. “The most basic definition of a criminal is someone who doesn’t follow rules. Yet somehow their rules work even if their bosses aren’t around to dish out punishment and rewards?”

“That’s what Frank reported. They’re in complete control of entire planets.”

“No way! How does anything get done? You still need the streets swept and pipes fixed. If everyone is a criminal, doing criminal stuff, all that breaks. Regular people put up with us as long as we stay out of their way. But if every sewer is overflowing and the trains are running into houses, not even frightened citizens will sit around for that.”

“I don’t know. Maybe they are operating those public works efficiently. Maybe they’re decent at their jobs, unlike Belvaille’s crooks.”

“If they’re doing the actual work, they aren’t a gang, they’re a government. There’s plenty of big regional governments. But don’t call them a gang. Not even a cartel,” I snorted.

“You seem to have all this figured out. I was hoping maybe you’d take over Frank’s assignment,” Podiver said.

“Frank is dead. All his debts and jobs and illegitimate kids can go find someone else to blame,” I said, uninterested.

“I’d pay you, of course.”

“How much?” I asked, interested.

“I was going to give him a shipment of thaleon macrodite—” he began.

“I don’t do trades!” I interrupted loudly. “Everyone knows that. I take cash. I take shares. I take stuff I can immediately use. But every damn time I’ve been paid in contraband or materials, I end up spending ten times the effort trying to move it. And I suck at that. I’m no salesman. Besides, where would I put it?”

“Don’t you live in a warehouse?”

He had a pretty good point.

“What kind of point is that? You trying to make fun of my sleeping situation?” I asked.

“No. No. I’m just saying. What would you want in trade?”

“I could use a nice car or two,” I said.

“Hank, I can’t give you an automobile. They would string me up for giving you wheels. You’re too dangerous,” Podiver explained.

“Well, then you’re going to have to pay me. I don’t do lines of credit,” I said, upset at the universal appraisal of my driving skills.

“Everyone is a little short on cash because of the Portal problem,” Podiver said.

“You know, I don’t get that. Sure, Delovoa did some Portal stuff. But there are Portals all over the galaxy. I’m sure they don’t have Delovoas everywhere.”

“Let’s hope not.”

“So how do they get by? How did we suddenly get screwed just because our Portals are the same as everyone else’s?” I asked.

“I can’t say I know, precisely. But this system has more Portals than any other. By a lot. That’s an extraordinary amount of traffic coming through. And if spaceships run into each other, it isn’t a fender bender.”

“I know that. But don’t ships have like, radar or sonar or whatever? Scanners. Can’t they use a tele and say get out of the way?” I asked.

“I’m not in that line of work. I handle merchandise, not shipping. But I think people took for granted all the things Delovoa built. He’s been adding bit by bit for a thousand years. So long that they became part of the navigation for every long-haul transport. So now all these young pilots don’t know how to fly like they were trained.”

“Huh,” I said, marveling. “I always thought he was just a dangerous weirdo who built good guns.”

“He is a dangerous weirdo. But he’s also mutant-crazy intelligent. Which is why the Navy is forking over 100 million to get him working and put things back the way they were,” Podiver said.

“Stop with the 100 million. That’s absurd.”

“It’s what I heard,” Podiver stated defiantly.

“Yeah, well I heard licking the feet of a rabid crocodile brings good luck, but that doesn’t make it true,” I said.

“Where’d you hear about the crocodiles?” Podiver asked curiously.

“Nowhere. I was just trying to come up with a dumb analogy,” I said quickly. I should have known better than to bring up luck with a criminal. Being natural risk-takers with little education, crooks were almost universally superstitious.

“Right. So let me see,” Podiver began, and he started making calculations in his tele. The device seemed tiny, grasped with his elongated fingers. “I can pay you 63,248 credits.”

“Odd number. What exactly are you looking for on these Cartel guys?” I asked. The amount of money was good—if he only wanted information.

“Everything. How many are here? What are their motives? Who is in charge? What’s their organizational structure? What are their methods and weapons and protection?”

“You think I’m going to be able to kidnap and brainwash them? As for gear, they had small arms and didn’t seem very competent with them. And the batch here all have on similar helmets so I assume they’re all the same species,” I said.

“We don’t think the helmets are life support. Or at least not full life support. We guess it’s their communication system. And if they aren’t that good, how did they take out Frank?” Podiver asked. “He’s basically you except…”

“Except better?” I offered.

“I was going to say ‘less husky.’ But regardless, it’s imperative we understand their intentions.”

“Look, if they killed Frank, I got an issue with them. Your job will line up nicely with that. And I’ve taken out like fifteen of them already.”

“I thought you said you killed ten of them,” Podiver noted.

“I’m not a census-taker! Especially when bullets are flying and bombs exploding.”

“Very well. But I do want to impress upon you the Cartel’s significance. Census or not,” he said.

“I still don’t get the big deal. Even if they run fifty planets—which I don’t believe for a minute—that don’t matter here on Belvaille,” I said.

“Hank, on any given day, anywhere between 75 and 100 people work for me,” Podiver began.

“See? You don’t keep precise counts neither.”

“Because the jobs differ and I have to ramp up or let go. But my point is, I managed to sneak some views at the station’s quarantine lists. There could be up to a thousand Cartel here. That would make them the single biggest gang in terms of sheer numbers,” Podiver said.

“And you want to know if they’re going to muscle in on your business?” I tried to confirm.

“Of course I do! But more than that. What are they doing here?” he asked.

“What’s anyone doing here?” I asked philosophically.

“No gang has ever come to Belvaille fully formed. Never,” Podiver countered. “The various miscreants and malcontents escape to our humble space station and take up with the existing organizations, or they move on.”

“It is unusual,” I agreed. “But we’ve had all sorts of power shifts on Belvaille in the past. We’ve had royalty and corporations and religions and movie studios. Like you said, Belvaille is the center of a lot of Portals and people come and go. This is just one other thing. But they sure as hell aren’t a gang. A thousand goons flying the same colors aren’t a gang. That’s an army.”





CHAPTER 9


I Spy



I had attempted to decipher the map that Frank had in his bathroom, but couldn’t make sense of it. If it was tied to the Cartel, it was in code. Every notation was an abbreviation and there were hundreds.

I decided to follow the Cartel and learn more about them. There was a 63,248-credit payday for passing along details. That money wouldn’t make me square with Cliston, but it would make me a little less of a deadbeat.

And eavesdropping was a lot easier than a gun battle.

Delovoa sent via courier two boxes of shotgun shells, thirty rounds total. He also had four pages of small-font instructions, graphs, calculations, and insults that I didn’t read.

Belvaille was a big city, but it was still a space station. Meaning, if you walked around long enough, you would eventually see everyone and everything. Despite there being a large number of very strange aliens here, I was pretty easy to spot in a crowd.

So if I wanted to spy on a cartel, I figured I should try and conceal my identity. I grabbed a poofy jacket I never wore because it was poofy; a wide brim hat I didn’t use because there wasn’t a sun to keep out of my eyes; and some fuzzy houseslippers.

I loaded my shotgun, grabbed some binoculars, and I went down to Cliston’s cooking class and got twenty-three pounds of food to go.

I then called the Zzzho taxi company to come give me a lift.

Tracking the Cartel wasn’t all that difficult. I simply asked my cabbie.

“Yeah, those helmet guys have taken over a couple blocks north of 48th and Stink Nose Avenue,” Zzzho said.

“What do you mean, ‘taken over?’ Did they kick out the people originally there?” I asked.

“No. It’s called Stink Nose because that’s right by the main sewer vent and where most of the drug cookers are,” he said. “Not exactly prime real estate.”

“The sewers shouldn’t be venting. I used to work there. The whole point is nothing toxic comes out,” I said.

“What things were like back in your golden olden years doesn’t matter. Besides, I don’t think they actually spew poison. But the sewers are below ground and all the atmosphere controls and filters are on the latticework at the top of the city. Unless there’s tubes connecting them, it’s got to float up,” he explained.

“What’s the air smell like?” I asked.

“Hank, I don’t have a face.”

“Right.”

“What’s with the floppy hat? Is there some festival or costume party I don’t know about?” he asked.

“No, I’m kind of in disguise,” I said.

“As what? Hank in a jacket and hat?”

“Have you driven those cartel guys any?” I asked, changing the subject.

“Sure. They tip, but not much. Never talk. They’re all business.”

“What kind of business?”

“How should I know if they don’t talk?”

“If they don’t speak, how do you know where to drive them or pick them up?” I asked.

“I mean they don’t chitchat.”

“Could they be Dredel Led robots?” I asked.

“No, they aren’t machines.”

“How can you be sure? You taken them apart?” I asked.

“I know how machines move in cars. They scratch, look out the windows, slouch, behave like biological entities that don’t talk a lot,” he explained.

“What do their voices sound like?” I asked, looking for any clues.

“Like guys wearing helmets.”

“This isn’t very helpful,” I said.

“I’m one of the only cars in the city that can drive you around. That’s my job. My job isn’t to conduct sociological experimentations on my passengers.”

“Alright, calm down,” I said.

“Is that food?” Zzzho asked, seeing me take a few bites.

“Maybe,” I said.

“Well get it out. I don’t want you stinking up my place of work.”

“If you can’t smell, what do you care?”

“I can’t, but everyone else can. Even if it’s good food, there’s a 50:50 chance the next alien that sits in here is allergic. Then they’re sneezing and throwing up and not giving me a tip. What kind of food is it?” he asked.

“I don’t know. Something from Cliston’s class.”

“If Cliston made it, I suppose it can’t be too bad. Why are you so interested in those Cartel guys anyway?”

“They might have killed Frank,” I said.

“Then you should probably thank them. Because sooner or later that guy was going to kill you,” Zzzho said.

“Nah. But all the same, I got to get info on them. I can kick you some coin if you dig up any juicy dirt,” I said.

“Well, I did just think of one thing: They’re all about the same size. I can tell with weight distribution.”

“That makes sense. If they all came on the same ship, they would probably be the same species,” I said.

“They didn’t come on one ship. They’ve been trickling in over months and months. I didn’t think nothing about a guy in a helmet. Tons of Colmarians have those to breathe or spit or pollinate. But it’s been a lot of them.”

“Yeah. Do you know how they make money? Are they selling stuff? Buying stuff?” I asked.

“I don’t know. They don’t try and sell me anything. They don’t get lifts to anything that seems work-like. ‘Hey, take me to the stock exchange.’”

“We don’t have a stock exchange.”

“I know, but if we did, they don’t go there. Hey, we’re about five blocks away. You want me to let you out here?”

“No, why?”

“To stay hidden. I thought you were in disguise.”

“I’m not going to walk five blocks. I’m not in disguise as a marathon champion. Are they like watching from every window and corner?”

“No. I don’t often see them outside. Sometimes.”

“Alright, then. Just drive me to where they are,” I said.

“You’re the boss. But stop eating so you don’t spill anything.”



I was left on the sidewalk to ponder my options.

Most of the buildings around here were residential, multi-unit dwellings. Around five stories. There wasn’t a lot of street traffic and only a few pedestrians around—with none in the distinctive Cartel uniform.

But whatever the merits of my disguise, I was practically alone on the block, and I really stood out. I went into the first building I came to and began to nose around for a good vantage point—quite literally using my nose.

Zzzho had said this area was occupied by drug cookers. Belvaille wasn’t exactly meticulous in adhering to safety standards and producers of narcotics likely took those scant recommendations and rolled them up and smoked them.

My eyes began to water on the first floor so I went up. It was worse on the second, but the third floor was more or less clean air. I was tired at this point and decided I would look here for a place I could conduct my stakeout.

An apartment door was open and people loudly argued from within. I approached warily. I wasn’t sure what to do if they were Cartel. I could ask them all of Podiver Vance’s questions, ask them if they murdered Frank, and finally ask them the meaning of life since they were being so forthcoming.

But inside it was just two drug guys doing drug stuff.

I walked in and they turned and gawked. I was easily as big as both of them combined and multiplied by ten. Or ten thousand. They had once been regular Colmarians but had obviously consumed a lot of drugs and the drugs had consumed them in return. They were emaciated with hollow faces.

“Are you dancer?” one of them asked me.

“Huh?” I asked.

“Look at his hat,” the man said.

“He’s a pastry chef. See?” the other man said, pointing at my fuzzy house slippers.

Dealing with criminals was never easy. There was an undercurrent of violence in every interaction. And you could tap someone on the wrong day in a bad mood, and die over nothing. The old-time crooks were in management. Street goons rarely had a chance to become veterans—though it did happen occasionally.

Dealing with drug people was even more difficult. It felt like every move was a random event you couldn’t possibly anticipate because you were communicating with people whose neurons were off-kilter.

“Does this place have windows that can see into the street?” I asked.

If I had spontaneously transformed myself into a bowl of pasta, the men couldn’t look more stupefied than they were now.

“Windows can’t see. They’re just holes in the wall,” one of them said finally.

“Hank. Do you need something?” a man called to me. He had walked in from another room.

The new man had a pistol in his waistband; he had apparently grabbed it on hearing the new voice. But he must know me or know of me, and knew the gun would be of no assistance. The man seemed concerned, but was at least not quite as wasted and scatterbrained as his compatriots. This was the drug equivalent of a boss, and he wouldn’t have even been a foot soldier in a regular gang. You simply can’t trust drug people.

“Hey. I’m just looking for a room where I can watch the street. I’ll stay out of your way,” I said.

“No, he won’t. He takes up half the space,” one of the druggies said.

“Do you have any pastries to eat?” the other asked.

“Actually, I do,” I said, realizing I had a small bag of dessert from Cliston’s class.

“What do you need a window for?” the boss asked.

“Do you know anything about the Cartel?” I asked him.

“The what?”

“The guys who all look similar. Wear kind of silver, enclosed helmets. Um, black sleeves. Pants. Boots. Kind of your height,” I attempted to explain.

“The tin pots. Yeah, they’re all around here. What did you call them?” the boss asked.

“Cartel. It’s supposedly their gang name,” I said.

“They’re a gang?”

“They might be. I need to keep an eye on them. You know anything about them?” I asked.

“They smell like sun blossom…rain,” one of the druggies said, laughing. He pulled at the base of his chin like he was trying to remove it.

The boss didn’t even register his man speaking. He must have been able to filter out drug logic.

“I don’t ever talk to those guys. It makes sense they’re a gang. I usually see them walking in groups,” the boss said.

“Is there somewhere I could watch them?” I asked.

“There’s only two rooms here, and we’re cooking,” the boss said. “In about forty-five minutes, you’ll need to put on a respirator.”

“Right there,” one of the druggies said, and he stuck a finger into my mouth! I’d been standing here slack-jawed from my pant up the stairs.

I swung my left arm vaguely at the poking junkie and connected vaguely with his torso. The man smashed into the wall, fell down, and was back on his feet. He looked slightly confused by this turn of events, but no more than usual.

The boss didn’t even notice.

“There’s a vacant apartment up one floor. Fourteen or fifteen. I forget. The door is locked, but, you know,” he said, indicating my size.

“Can we go and get some pastries?” the one I didn’t slug asked.

“You need to wrap those tailings before we suffocate,” the boss demanded. “Get working or you don’t get no splee.”

The druggies rushed to return to their drug activities.

“Thanks for the help,” I said, and left the apartment.

Upstairs, apartment fifteen was indeed vacant, but there were four or five squatters in it. They had destroyed the lock and most of the door trying to get in and were now in a state of recumbent drugitude.

“Get out!” I shouted.

Two of the squatters fled immediately. But I had to drag the rest, who were too far gone to notice me. I closed the door as best I could and piled a heavy chair that had survived the last tenants in front of it.

From here, I had an excellent view of the street, but only one side. The windows were tall and I couldn’t see directly beneath me. I could maybe break them out, but I didn’t want to inadvertently trigger any alarms or fire prevention or anything else. This job was already a hassle and I didn’t want to have to sit here with sirens blaring in my ears.

I made myself as comfortable as I could and munched on Cliston’s food. It wasn’t really his, merely his students’. And it had gotten jumbled and smushed in my travels. Still, it wasn’t bad.

It wasn’t long before I saw the first of the Cartel. Two men walked together down the sidewalk and up a street. They didn’t have the same gaits, or exactly identical clothes—but they were certainly similar.

I wasn’t sure what information I could glean four stories up from guys wearing opaque helmets. The drug boss called them tin pots, and that seemed pretty accurate. They didn’t look amazingly hi-tech, but that could be deceiving. For all I knew they could have supercomputers in those helmets and their outfits lined with nano-transistors.

I started taking notes in my tele. How many were walking. Which directions. When. The drug boss was right in that they almost always travelled in groups, usually three or four.

About five hours of this excitement and I went in to use the bathroom, took one look at what the squatters had done, and decided against it.

“What are you supposed to be?” Garm asked.

She had snuck in, past the barricaded door, without me noticing.

“I’m…nothing. I just wanted to kind of break up my usual appearance,” I said awkwardly.

“That’s your disguise? A puffy jacket and big hat?” she asked.

“It’s not really a disguise. I don’t have on a fake mustache or—”

“You have fuzzy slippers!” Garm laughed, pointing. “You’re a master of camouflage! I would never have recognized you. ‘Who is that giant Colmarian covered in food? It can’t be Hank. He doesn’t have furry feet.’”

Garm kept winding herself up and I don’t think I had ever seen her laugh this hard in the many centuries I had known her. Just on and on and on.

I actually took off my hat to scratch my head I was feeling so silly.

“What do you want?” I asked her.

It took her several minutes to calm down.

“I’m checking up to see how you’re doing,” she said.

“Lousy. But I think those Cartel guys might have knocked off my uncle. They came after me when I snooped around his place. Do you know anything about them?” I asked.

“Who are you asking?”

“Uh, clearly I’m asking the Princess of the Seventh Fairy Kingdom. But since I’m alone with you in a druggie apartment on Belvaille, I guess I have to settle for asking you,” I said.

“Garm, the Adjunct Overwatch, is intimately familiar with the demographic and population changes within the city. There have been no recent statistically signification fluctuations in crime, employment, homelessness, gardening, or utility consumption and conservation,” she rattled off.

“Okay.”

“However, Garm, the Quadrad, knows all about the Cartel and she’s scared to death of them.”

“Podiver Vance told me a bit about them. Or what he thought he knew. But what I don’t get is how a so-called criminal organization can span thousands of planets. Hell, two planets,” I said.

“And you hit it exactly. There has never, and I mean, ever, in the history of the galaxy, been a cross-sector crime syndicate,” Garm said.

“I thought there were like millions of Quadrad spread around the galaxy,” I said.

“Yeah, that’s what we want you to think. There’s just about more Cartel on Belvaille than there are active Quadrad anywhere. We can barely run our own planet let alone others.”

“So then how are these guys different?” I asked.

“I don’t know. No one can figure it out. The kind of people you need to run a massive organization are exactly the kind of people who aren’t criminals. You goofs can barely handle your rackets on Belvaille and you’ve got some of the best criminal minds and fluffy shoes here. If you were set loose on a planetary scale, there would be mass starvation in a week,” she said.

“Right. I mean, I don’t think they’re crooks. They can’t be.”

“You said they attacked you?”

“Yeah. In that respect, they’re pretty criminal. They lit up MTB and myself without a word.”

“What were their combat capabilities?” she asked, interested.

“I don’t really know. I blew up the wall. Walls.”

“That was you? Of course it was. I got so much blowback from that! The Navy tends to get antsy when they see buildings explode near their valuable spaceport.”

“Are they going to do anything?” I asked.

“Probably not. I said it was a charity fundraiser using unregistered heat lamps.”

“Smart.”

“Yeah, but I’ve only got so many fake charities I can blame. Do me a favor and keep the demolition to a minimum. You’re supposed to be finding Frank’s killer. You have any proof it was the Cartel?”

“You mean signed assassination orders in triplicate? No. But they shot at me.”

“Everyone shoots at you,” she said.

“Was this what you had Frank working on: the Cartel?”

“No,” she replied.

“I found a map at Frank’s. And this sweet shotgun,” I said, holding it out. “Sapphire handles. They’re worth like ten grand.”

“What map did you find? Get that gun out of my face. What a preposterous weapon. I said keep demolition down and you’ve got—” Garm began, but trailed off. “Did you hear that?”

“Hear what? I only hear you ranting.”

“Shush.”

The building shook.

“Holy crap. It is an earthquake,” I said.

Garm didn’t answer. She was in full alert mode. All coiled energy ready to spring in any direction. That was her mutation, and personality, in action.

My mutation allowed me to marvel at the earthquake. I went to the window to see if any buildings were falling.

And then a giant walked past our window.





CHAPTER 10


Earthquake With an Attitude



Wallow was back.

The titanic Therezian was currently stumbling down the street, leaning against buildings, and trying to regain his senses. It was understandable. For decades, he had been in some kind of hibernation. Everyone had assumed he was dead. Noted xenobiologists had even travelled to Belvaille to study his corpse. During that period, Wallow’s body had been subjected to jackhammers, saws, chemicals, explosives, and everything destructive we could find, in an attempt to dismember and dispose of the corpse.

And nothing had worked. Nothing had even scratched him. So he was just left there, blocking the street. Even dead, he was capable of having the entire population go around him.

“You need to stop him!” Garm said to me.

“What? Stop him how?” I asked.

“He can destroy the city,” she said.

Garm was right. Wallow was like a walking natural disaster that didn’t dissipate over time. Even now, he was tearing up the street, knocking holes in buildings, flattening cars, and he wasn’t even trying. He was merely staggering around, disoriented.

While Belvaille was a robust city, it was still a space station. We had sensitive gear all over the place that kept us alive. And just outside the boundaries of our small habitation was outer space.

We were trapped here.

“If we gave every man, woman, child, and alien sludge on Belvaille a rocket launcher, we couldn’t stop Wallow,” I said.

“I know that. Go talk to him. I need to inform the Navy,” Garm said, and she dashed away.

“Talk? You go talk to him!” I replied, but Garm was already gone. By the time I turned around to address her, she was probably a block away.

Wallow was groaning, rubbing his enormous head. His elbow bumped a nearby apartment building and took out a quarter of the top floor.

Therezians had been a mostly benign species. But very quickly, people realized they could be used as weapons. Horrific weapons. So for millennia, none of them were allowed to leave their planet, and no one could visit them. Only the thousand or so who had already emigrated were allowed to stay in the wider galaxy—probably because it was too difficult to put them back.

It was not until Thad Elon himself had utilized the Therezians as shock troops in his efforts to create a galactic civil war that the universe began to really take Therezians seriously. And their home world was obliterated—from the safety of space.

During that civil war, a relatively small number of Therezians laid waste to entire planets. Some of them shrugged off the most powerful nuclear weapons and plasma devices.

Now there were only handfuls of Therezians left. Wherever they were, they were left alone. Because what could you do to them?

On Belvaille, Wallow had been a doorman, of all things. And you can only imagine how safe that door was.

But Wallow hadn’t liked me. I don’t know why. It certainly wasn’t reciprocated on my part. I would have loved to have Wallow as a friend. Just chill out and share a beer the size of an asteroid.

If he hadn’t periodically taken turns breaking every one of my bones—and all my teeth—I would have made more efforts to get on his good side. Instead, I avoided him.

But now Wallow was back. Back from the dead.

Whether the Cartel had killed Frank and whether they were muscling in to Belvaille and were going to make us all wear matching helmets simply didn’t matter at this point. The least important aspect of Wallow was more important than absolutely anything right now. Wallow’s favorite color was more vital than every case of contagious butt cancer on the space station combined.

And Garm expected me to go chat with that lumbering cataclysm.

I took my time walking out of the building. Along the way I passed numerous junkies and drug lords screaming about the apocalypse outside the front door. Wallow had to be a damn frightening thing to see when you were high on drugs. He was plenty frightening to me and I was stone sober.

Out on the street, Wallow was even more impressive. Looking up at him, it became apparent how ludicrous it was that anyone was going to do anything to this monster. I could fit inside one of his nostrils and have enough room for pillows, blankets, and maybe a small end table.

Fortunately or unfortunately, Wallow seemed to be preoccupied with himself. He rubbed at his eyes, groaned, clawed at his misbehaving muscles, and generally appeared like someone who had just awoken from a really lousy, decades-long slumber.

He spent a lot of effort picking at his ears. This was understandable. When he was dead, he was a favorite hangout for rebellious youths. And they scrawled graffiti on him and left garbage everywhere. While we did our best to keep him clean, his ear canals were likely filled with whatever waste teenagers could lob in there over the years.

The streets around him were now filled with screaming, fleeing citizens, and non-screaming, but nonetheless fleeing, Cartel. At least I knew those bucketheads weren’t oblivious. All it took was an angry god walking amongst them for them to display emotion—or at least a sense of self-preservation.

I took a spot on the sidewalk behind and across the street from Wallow. It was immediately safe from his reach and view, but I knew from experience that the Therezian was incredibly fast. I suspected he could outrun any vehicle on the station. And since I could barely outrun a jar of glue, it didn’t amazingly matter where I stood if Wallow wanted to catch me.

MTB approached me from the rear.

“What did you do?” he asked me angrily.

“How do you think I did this?”

“This has ‘Hank’ written all over it,” he accused.

“There’s not enough ink in the galaxy to write on him. I didn’t even like standing near Wallow when we thought he was dead. If you recall, he and I didn’t exactly get along. I’m sure as hell not going to wake him up.”

“You need to stop him,” MTB said.

“What is with you people? Why does everyone think I’m packing an anti-Therezian ballistic missile in my underwear? I can’t stop that thing. Entire galactic armies couldn’t stop them. You think this floppy hat is hiding a black hole?” I asked. I threw my hat on the ground, kicked off my house slippers—which had already been torn in half—and took off my jacket.

“If he keeps moving that direction, he’s going to hit real residential areas,” MTB warned.

“And what’s this?” I asked, pointing at our surroundings.

“Low priority housing: drug cooks and Cartel.”

“Fair point. He doesn’t seem like he has any destination in mind. He hasn’t looked at anything as far as I can tell.”

“You think he’s blind? Kids been spray-painting his eyeballs and piling trash in his nose.”

“Your guess is as good as mine. Garm left to inform the Navy. Maybe they can do something,” I said.

“Last thing we need is a bunch of soldiers shooting at him.”

“They’re not stupid.”

MTB stared at me.

“How long you known the Navy? When have they ever used a soft touch?” he asked.

Wallow suddenly fell down on one knee. Both MTB and I were thrown into the air from the shockwave. It wasn’t far, in my case, but the ripple was enough to completely desurface the street for two blocks in either direction.

The roads of Belvaille were solid steel but they were sprayed with a tacky, viscous material that could absorb shock and provide traction to vehicles. It was a durable substance and it could even handle MTB’s ridiculous police tank. And Wallow falling was enough to liquefy it.

“Ow,” MTB mumbled, after picking himself up from the ground. His wide eyes indicated he was rapidly re-evaluating our situation. “We got to evacuate people.”

“To where?” I asked.

“Wherever he isn’t.”

“We don’t exactly got robust public transportation. We can’t shuffle a city around faster than a Therezian can walk,” I said.

“You got any better ideas?” he asked.

“I don’t have any ideas.”

Operation Run Away was hastily instituted by MTB and his police force. Wallow was not moving very quickly at this point, so it was a matter of getting people out of their homes and pointing them in the right direction. Even the most deaf, anti-social, unaware citizens were able to recognize that a befuddled giant was stumbling around nearby.

At the moment, Wallow wasn’t doing much more than acting like someone who had a really bad hangover. But he was an indestructible behemoth with a really bad hangover.

The police couldn’t keep nudging citizens along one block ahead of Wallow. So MTB came up with a good plan to push people all the way north or south. From there, if needed, they could migrate east to the port and wait for ships to ferry them to safety.

But evacuating the entire city was not going to be done in hours or even days. As I said before, every species had its own life support requirements. And trying to cram 250,000 distinct aliens into cargo ships with one another would result in a lot of them dying.

The police were not a large team. They couldn’t go door-to-door, they had to use loudspeakers and tele messages.

People were instructed to help their neighbors, if they were physically incapable of fleeing. And, much to my surprise, everyone was doing their part. They might be members of rival gangs and sociopathic criminals, but they were citizens of outer space. And when things got dicey in outer space, you stowed your badge in your back pocket.

Because space didn’t give a crap who you worked for, your prejudices, or your grudges.

I was half a block from Wallow counting the many, many ways in which I was capable of doing absolutely nothing to help this situation. And then some soldiers drove up in a truck and filed out like they had trained for years in truck exiting.

“You Hank?” an officer asked, the soldiers falling into formation behind him.

“I suppose.”

“Adjunct Overwatch Garm sent us word. Are you going to kill it?” he asked me.

I looked at Wallow. Back at the officer.

“Kill that?” I asked, pointing at the Therezian. I thought for sure there was some miscommunication. Maybe he thought it was only an inflatable Wallow. Some birthday party gimmick that had gotten out of hand.

“Didn’t you fight him before?” the officer asked.

“No. He smashed me a number of times, but they weren’t fights.”

“What are you planning on doing?” he asked, growing irritated.

“You’re looking at it!” I said, throwing up my arms.

“We need to contain and control it. Otherwise, it must be neutralized.”

“Are you insane?” I asked. “Entire galactic empires couldn’t stop these guys. What do you have, ten infantry?”

“We have to keep him from the Navy areas and protect our assets. Form up! Equip!” he yelled to his soldiers.

The men ran back to the truck and grabbed gear. It was an impressive display of organizational proficiency. But entirely pointless.

“You want to help, get with the police and start corralling people away from this area,” I said.

“Our orders are to protect the telescopes and port,” he replied, no longer looking at me, but at his gargantuan target.

“You can buy new telescopes. And a couple rusty battery packs sitting at the port aren’t as valuable as a half million civilian lives,” I argued.

The officer turned to me and got near my face. He wasn’t trying to intimidate me—he was a tiny little man—he was attempting to keep our conversation private.

“There are enough munitions and fuel at the port that if that thing trips in there, everyone on this city will die. It will be some combination of cataclysmic fire and/or noxious gasses that overwhelm the city’s life support. Protecting Navy assets protects lives.”

I saw his soldiers were assembling some kind of artillery or rocket launchers. They weren’t massive, but they were crew-manned weapon systems.

“If you start shooting at Wallow, you’re just going to piss him off. Look at him, he’s just kind of… itching himself and lightly smacking around a few structures. If you rile him up, he’ll murder us.”

“We have our orders. If you can contain him, we won’t have to engage,” the officer said.

I sighed.

For better or worse, I didn’t have a lot of fear in my life. Sure, I had the occasional life-threatening terror. But considering I was a criminal, surrounded by criminals, and I was shot regularly and often, I usually didn’t get all that scared. It came from having my mutations for so long.

I’ve done damn near everything a person could do to die, and so far, I’ve failed.

But fear was great motivation. Right now, my heartrate was dangerously elevated and adrenaline was pumping so hard and so fast, it was probably about to squirt out of my toes. My mind raced and I snapped into gear.

“MTB, I need to borrow a bullhorn. Now!” I said on the tele. “Give me a minute,” I told the officer.

My voice was deep but, despite my big lungs, I couldn’t get a lot of volume. I simply wasn’t designed to be an opera singer. And I couldn’t yell up at a Therezian and expect to be heard over the commotion going on during Operation Run Away and Wallow’s own haphazard thumping against metal walls and his own fingers digging in his ears.

One of MTB’s cops provided me with a bullhorn and quickly vacated. The soldiers all fanned out with their impressive, yet wholly inadequate weaponry, and waited for me to do something.

I got as close as I dared to the Therezian. At the moment, he was more or less leaning against a building and rubbing his forehead.

“Hey, Wallow,” I began uneasily. “So, uh, what’s new? Actually, I guess you wouldn’t really know, right? We thought you were asleep. Um, lots of changes in the city. The Navy is here. Yeah, right here on Belvaille. We, uh, still do imports and exports. Lots of work. If you’re looking for a job, I could give you some references.”

The soldiers watched me anxiously. Actually, I was watching them anxiously. They seemed pretty cool with the idea of engaging a Therezian in combat.

I kept talking and talking. This went on for almost four hours. I was starting to lose my voice because I was shouting into the megaphone—I was so amped up I couldn’t do otherwise.

I said anything I could think of to “contain” Wallow—whatever the hell that meant. I related every story I’d ever heard since Wallow had collapsed. I had gone through all the exciting tales and was left with small talk and banter.

“…and then I figured I might actually be allergic to that variety of beans. You can imagine how foolish I felt after a month of trying to find the cause. I was wearing nothing but synthetic fibers and breathing bottled air when it was the bean pudding that was causing my rampant diarrhea,” I said.

Wallow suddenly tilted, as if my story about beans had knocked him senseless. The Therezian took a step back to regain his balance and came within six feet of squishing me. He staggered, and his upper body landed squarely on a small hotel and demolished the top two floors.

MTB and his police had managed to vacate the surrounding blocks, so no one was injured, but the soldiers took this as some concrete proof they had to act. More and more of the Navy had drove in and prepared during my erratic speech. There were now scores of them arrayed all around me.

“Hank, clear out of there immediately. You have five seconds to reach cover before we open fire,” the officer yelled.

“Don’t be a fool,” I said back on my bullhorn. “You can’t hurt him.”

“Three seconds,” the officer replied.

I was not a fast runner. I was not even a moderately fast walker. I did my patented hop/shuffle/step to try and put some distance between me and Wallow.

I cleared half a block when I heard the impact of explosive shells behind me. Those maniacs were blasting a newly awoken Therezian with heavy weapons. As if the entire city spending decades trying to dismember Wallow wasn’t proof enough that he was impervious.

I crouched against the building to my left. Well, I tripped on my own feet and fell on the sidewalk—but there was definitely a building to my left.

I turned over and around and saw Wallow stand upright from his previous position against the building. His tremendous arms moved down to his sides. He looked slightly less befuddled and confused than he had moments ago.

Four rockets streamed up and hit Wallow square in the face, with one going short and impacting under his chin. The blasts were significant enough that I felt the overpressure concussion this far away. If I still had on my floppy hat, it would have been whisked off my head.

But Wallow didn’t even blink!

Four missile payloads exploded directly in his face—one off the chin—and Wallow did not display even the slightest appreciation of those events.

After that, round after round of explosive shells peppered Wallow in the knees and hips. The Navy was trying to knock him down, as if a collapsing colossus was a coveted conclusion—or easy to say.

MTB was trying to tell me something on my tele, but I sat there dumbfounded, watching this madness unfold. This…felt like a profound, teaching moment. There was some Great Truth happening here.

Aggressive people were poking and jabbing and exploding something they had no business being anywhere near.

And Wallow, was slowly—very slowly—starting to notice.

How could they not see what was happening? How could anyone think this was a good idea?

I got on my tele and called Cliston.

“Hello, sir. What time might we expect you for dinner?” he asked.

“Cliston! Wallow is loose. He’s alive. Awake. We might have to flee the city.”

“Goodness. Should I pack your things? Your luggage will not be able to contain your entire wardrobe. Shall I prioritize based on comfort or color scheme?” he asked.

“None. Neither. Hey. I’m thinking he might be hungry.”

“To whom are you referring?”

“Wallow! He’s been unconscious for years and years. Do you know any Therezian foods?” I asked.

“I am afraid I only have twenty-three recipes that would be suitable for a Therezian. I have never had to prepare meals for one before,” he apologized.

“Twenty-three? We only need one.”

“It would be a very unintriguing meal,” Cliston stated distastefully.

“How long would it take?” I asked.

“Six hours and fifteen minutes if I began now.”

“That’s too long, Cliston. We got all those kitchens. And chefs. Could you guys work together and make some Wallow-sized food? Quickly?”

“I am not comfortable with entrusting my students with this. After all, you would not wish his first meal to be substandard,” Cliston answered.

“Dammit Cliston, it’s not about making the front page of Therezian Cuisine Monthly,” I said.

“I am unfamiliar with any such outlet. Are you attempting to be humorous?” he asked.

“No, I’m attempting to save this city from a starving monster. Just make the damn food. Tell me and MTB and Garm when you’re done,” I yelled.

“Very well, sir. But I have to warn you, it will not be up to my preferred level of expertise with such short notice and utilizing untrained assistants,” Cliston said severely.

“Fine. Fine.”

“And your own dinner will have to be postponed,” he added.

I paused at that news.

“Okay. If you have to. Just do it, please. And thanks, Cliston.”

“You are quite welcome, sir. I shall keep you apprised of our progress. Goodbye and good luck,” he said.

“Always so polite,” I muttered to myself.

After a barrage of shells popped Wallow in his ankle, he responded by lifting, and then stomping his right foot.

Boom.

His foot sank three feet into the street and I flew three feet into the air from the shockwave. Seeing that reminded me of an important fact that was easy to forget: Belvaille was a machine.

Belvaille wasn’t a city or home or port, it was a device. An enormous machine. It was an apparatus whose purpose was to keep flimsy biological things alive despite us lounging in the void.

And yes, the machine had redundancies and backups and rerouting. But Wallow didn’t put his foot through the ground. There was no ground here. Everything on Belvaille was part of the machine of Belvaille. That wasn’t dirt or soil that just got compressed, it was pipes and wires and circuits and gears that struggled every second to keep us alive.

The soldiers couldn’t see that. They just kept on.

Their original numbers had been further bolstered. They came in truck after truck. I knew there weren’t that many military vehicles on all of Belvaille, so the same ones must be driving back and forth in an effort to bring an entirely useless army to this location.

They proceeded to throw an absurd amount of firepower at Wallow. The ricochets, blasts, splashes, and misses were causing far more damage to the city than Wallow had.

And it was absolutely clear that Wallow was growing more and more coherent of his situation—and annoyed at it.

“Guys! Stop. You’re only making it worse. I placed a take-out order to get Wallow some food,” I yelled.

But no one was listening to me. They likely couldn’t hear me, megaphone or not, over the fireworks festival they were putting on.

The street was now lousy with soldiers. They were mostly on the other side of Wallow from me, as that was the direction their barracks was in. There were a whole lot of young people having a great time shooting hi-tech weapons at a titan.

And I suppose I could understand that. These soldiers had probably trained for much of their lives on how to be Colmarian Navy assault specialists…and then they were assigned to Belvaille.

If you signed up in the Navy for excitement, this space station didn’t meet those expectations. While there were plenty of illegal things to do here and more violence than you could ever wish for, the Navy personnel were all prohibited from taking part.

And pretty much everyone knew that.

If a soldier bumbled into a casino and tried to buy some drinks or drugs or gamble, he wouldn’t get served. No one would even look at him. Because in twenty-four hours, that soldier would be demoted and on the first ship out of here, and the Navy might come looking to punish the individuals who had corrupted their very expensive employee.

Once that happened five or fifty times, even the most lawless of Belvaille scumbags was smart enough to steer clear of any cadets looking for entertainment. It just wasn’t worth the risk.

So when given the chance to cut loose against Wallow, the Navy were more than happy to oblige. A hundred soldiers were blowing off steam that had been bottled up for years. The only thing missing was music.

But this wasn’t a nightclub. These jerks were damaging the city with a wanton display of force. And, more importantly, they were antagonizing the single most dangerous thing on Belvaille—maybe in the entire sector.

Perhaps it was a rocket against his ear drum or a laser blast up the nose, but Wallow suddenly snapped out of his stupor.

He was facing away from me when I saw him crouch down. His arms were bent at his sides. I couldn’t figure out if he was falling or kneeling or what was going on.

And then he jumped.

Wallow jumped.

Into the sky.

His launch actually bent the street.

With no target in view, rockets, missiles, grenades, bullets, lasers, all went careening off into nothingness.

More or less in my general direction.

I got smacked, flipped, and exploded. I was propelled backwards, where I rolled down the street. And that may have saved my life.

Because Wallow landed.

It was such a long delay you practically forgot he left—though I was a bit preoccupied with getting shot by the Navy.

The impact of the Therezian was so tremendous that the buildings on either side of him simply collapsed. His arms hit the ground in front of him and wiped out half the soldiers instantly.

He punched through the space station superstructure and sunk up to his ankles.

I was flung by a wave. The actual space station, solid steel, became a wave. And then I found myself in the next block.

My ears had already taken a beating from the Navy’s antics. But Wallow’s splash landing caused a ringing and gave me a mild concussion.

I was lying on my back, blinking, my jaw hung open and rotating about its hinge like it couldn’t remember what it was for.

I’m not sure how long I stayed like that. Could have been a minute, could have been an hour. It’s like every switch on a circuit breaker had been turned off, other than the one labeled: lie there and look dumb.

When I finally began to power back up, I managed to look at my fingers. Not because they were especially important, but I focused and refocused my eyes and it helped me climb out of the hole where my brain had fled.

I used my arms to prop myself up into a seated position.

It took a few moments to recognize what I saw.

The block ahead of me was gone. Just gone.

Like if the city planners had decided there should be no buildings on one block and only blood and rubble. Wallow had systematically flattened it.

There were no soldiers. No guns. Nothing standing taller than about eight feet. And those were the tall points of what had been six-story buildings.

But Wallow was still there. He stood in what seemed like a combat pose. His knees were bent at 30 degree angles. His hands were balled into fists. His arms were wide and elbows bent. His back was hunched so he could see if there were any remaining insects to kill.

I turned over, put my arms down, got my knees under me, and slowly began to stand up. It was a conscious effort and required much thought and planning.

I finally got to my feet and turned back to see what Wallow was doing.

The Therezian turned his head. His eyes were squinted. His face contorted in a terrible sneer.

“Hank!” he said.

“Thah,” I spit, my tongue uncooperative.

Wallow took three steps and was above me. He reached down with his gigantic hand and picked me up. He lifted me like I was a toy.

His teeth were huge and I was only feet from his mouth. His eyeballs were bigger than my head.

I felt certain Wallow was going to eat me.

“Eat suck, suckface!” he shouted.

“That’s my line,” I squeaked.

And then the Therezian hurled me.

You’d think I would black out being accelerated with slightly more than 30 g-force. But once he let go, it was “merely” the wind in my face as I tumbled through the air high over the city. If I hadn’t already had a concussion, if I hadn’t been terrified, and if I wasn’t screaming, it might even have been an enjoyable experience.

But all things must end. And my brief flight was interrupted by me entering—and then exiting—a dry cleaners, a parked car, and then another parked car. My body barreled into a tasteful family restaurant that had only opened two days ago. I came to rest almost exactly in a corner booth, which, after significant repairs and refurbishment, would become known as the “Hank Room.”

I then promptly fell into a coma.





CHAPTER 11


Back to Reality



“Everyone in the city likes you again. Or they hate you less, in any case. Though they like Cliston a lot more—but that’s understandable,” Garm said.

I was in my private room at the hospital. Tubes were sticking out of so many places I’m not sure they all had official names. I half suspected the medical technicians simply felt around for holes in my body and stuck a tube in once they found one.

“What are you doing here?” I asked weakly.

“I actually ordered them to feed you some amphetamine because I need you up and around. You’ve slept long enough,” she said.

“I wasn’t taking a nap. I was recovering. What happened with Wallow?”

“Your food plan worked. It seems he was just in some kind of nutrient shock.”

“It wasn’t helped by the fact your precious Navy was blasting him with missiles,” I said.

“I can assure you that no soldiers were firing on my orders. I could have told them it was pointless to shoot a Therezian,” she said.

“How did you get the food to him?”

“It was a concerted effort by me, MTB’s security forces, and Cliston’s home economics team,” she said.

I must have looked confused.

“Honestly, it probably had more to do with the fact we rerouted ventilation from your warehouse to where Wallow was. So he could smell it. Then he walked over. But I like to think we gave him some extra directions. Cliston had an amazing fourteen-course meal set up.”

“Figures he couldn’t make anything simple. Did you taste the food?” I asked.

“Are you asking me if I stole food from a starving, murderous Therezian who had just demolished a city block and annihilated an entire Navy Heavy Armaments company? No, I did not undertake such an activity.”

“When will you get the chance again? I would have tasted it,” I said.

“I’m sure you would have. And on an entirely unrelated note, you’re just now waking up from a nineteen-day coma. But I’m sure that doesn’t reflect on your decision-making skills.”

“Man. Nineteen days?” I asked. “Did Wallow do any damage besides hurting his shoulder throwing me?”

“I just told you he murdered 124 Navy specialists. He also obliterated 18 buildings, and damaged many others. Something like 350 citizens were injured just because they were nearby. So, yeah, you could say he did some damage.”

“What are you going to do with Wallow now?” I asked.

“Nothing! Leave him the hell alone. Exactly what any non-suicidal lifeform would do. If he’s hungry, we’ll gladly feed him. But enough about Wallow, he’s been quiet for a week and let’s leave it that way. Do some stretches or eat some orchards because you have work to do.”

“Is it the Cartel?” I asked.

“No. Who cares about them? Actually, I care, just not so much right now. I need to tell you what I had Frank working on.”

“Ugh. That guy,” I said, trying to get up from bed. But I only managed to slightly move my arm.

“Yes. I had your uncle tracking Boranjame,” Garm said.

“I heard something about that. Well, heard someone who heard something. Why would you ever need to keep tabs on the Boranjame? It’s not as if they’re subtle,” I said.

“Since you’ve been in the hospital—not-napping—four extra Boranjame have entered this system,” she said.

“What?” I asked, ceasing my feeble struggle with the bed sheets.

“That’s right. You thought it was bad having one space god, Gax, in permanent residence nearby? Now we got five of the bastards. There have never been this many Boranjame this close together. At least not that we know of. And a lot of people—some of whom happen to be in charge of galactic empires—are extremely concerned about why so many Boranjame would congregate in one region.”

“Where are they now?” I asked.

“We don’t know. We have reason to suspect one or more might even be on Belvaille.”

“How can you not know? To enter this space station, or any populated city, you have to be scanned like 10,000 times at quarantine.”

“Last week, every single system at quarantine shut down for exactly three days. Forty-five different technicians and engineers couldn’t figure out what was wrong. Then, miraculously, it all turned back on,” she said.

“That does sound like something a Boranjame would do.”

“Doesn’t it, though?” she agreed.

“But even still, someone had to have seen them. I have to think that at least one of your people would notice a giant, floating crystal with supernatural abilities,” I said.

“I’m not guessing what a Boranjame did or didn’t do. No one knows what they’re capable of. You’re the only person alive in the entire galaxy who has had more than cursory interaction with those things.”

“Right. So why did you hire Frank to monitor them and not me?” I asked, annoyed.

“You sure get prickly after a coma, don’t you? Hank, you’re good at a lot of things. Well, several things. But those things aren’t subterfuge, surveillance, and subtlety. You are the antithesis of those concepts. Which works in many situations. But not with the Boranjame.”

“But you want my help now?”

“They’re here, now. Subtle is over. What do they want? Go talk to them,” she said.

“The last time you said ‘go talk to him,’ I ended up here. And Boranjame make Wallow look like a reasonable fellow.”

“Would you rather know what five gods are doing in your backyard or not know?” she asked.

“Not know.”

“You don’t have a choice. I’m ordering you to make contact and find out their intentions,” she said.

“You can’t order me. I don’t work for you or the Navy or anyone,” I said.

“I’ll cut past the official forms that state that I, as Adjunct Overwatch, can requisition, commandeer, deputize, imprison, or enlist anyone on the station for any purpose. I’ll just point out that I told your doctors to feed you amphetamines to wake you up and they didn’t even ask me why,” she said.

“I’m not exactly at fighting strength. I can’t even fight these blankets off me,” I said.

“I recommend not fighting a space god. You’re the only Boranjame expert we have. And who knows, maybe they killed Frank,” she said.

“Then maybe I shouldn’t mess with them or they’ll kill me, too. Isn’t this a diplomatic mission for actual diplomats? Boranjame are an empire. I’m just a handsome guy forcibly awoken from a coma.”

“We don’t have any spare intergalactic diplomats lounging around Belvaille. And this can’t wait for your physical therapy. We lost track of them at the Portals and we suspect other Boranjame are on the move,” she said.

“Ugh. Hey, about the Portals. Did you hear how like, Delovoa’s junk was all destroyed?” I asked.

“Yes. It’s quite a headache. We have a traffic jam across a third of the galaxy. Planets are literally going to starve,” she said.

“Who did it?”

“Who knows? I’d say it was Delovoa himself, but most of that stuff can’t be remotely disabled—let alone removed. It’s out there in space or inside a Portal, which is a well-protected superstructure. I have a feeling it was the Boranjame. On accident or purpose is anyone’s guess,” she said.

“Is Delovoa really getting 100 million credits to fix it?”

“There’s maybe a thousand parts to that contract, but I think the grand total, if he does everything right, is 123,480,000 credits,” she said.

“Wow.”

“It isn’t as nice as it sounds. I’d say the outcome is 50:50. He’ll either become wealthy after this, or the Navy will execute him for treason.”

“Then I better go borrow money from him now. But speaking of the Navy, shouldn’t they deal with the Boranjame?” I asked.

“You saw how well they handled Wallow. I haven’t read the after-action report yet, but they probably considered that encounter a by-the-book success. The Navy in this region are all combat personnel who messed up bad enough that they got sent here. I’d rather not have a repeat of the Therezian events on a Boranjame scale. We’ll all end up in comas. In fact, the only reason the Navy isn’t out there harassing Wallow right now is because the unit that would have done so is smeared across the bottom of his feet.”

“Okay, okay. I want to be paid, though.”

“If you say 100 million, you’re going back in a coma.”

“No…” I began.

“Besides, I paid your hospital bill. And I paid for the—very small—holes Wallow put in your house getting his food.”

“I want to be allowed to drive again. With my own car,” I replied.

Garm had the most perfect poker face around. Her Quadrad training had included decades of covert skills which allowed her to mask and impersonate emotions completely. But her lower lip twitched.

“I can’t let you have a car. Hank, you run over people. And hit buildings. A Navy admiral actually demanded we take away your license the last time you crashed inside the port and almost dumped a million tons of fuel on the city,” she said.

“As Adjunct Overwatch you have the ability to requisition and blah blah blah, give a driving permit to anyone for any reason,” I said.

Garm paused to think that over.

“Fine. But it will be a slow car. With lights all over it. And bumpers—lots of bumpers.”

“I want a cool car,” I replied.

“Well, I want to be Queen of the Universe but I’m stuck babysitting you clowns. Now get your ass up.”



It took me about three hours to finally exit the hospital. Not just because I couldn’t move very well, but they had to disconnect all the tubes that I half believe were there for show.

I had Zzzho pick me up at the front.

“You wanted me to keep an eye on those Cartel guys, right?” he began, once we were moving.

“They aren’t as much of a priority right now,” I said.

“Oh, my mistake. You were making lots of plans while you were unconscious?” he asked.

“No, everyone else was. But what did you find out?”

“A lot more Cartel have arrived on the station. As best I can figure, anyway.”

“What’s that mean?” I asked.

“They all wear enclosed helmets. It could be the same two guys over and over,” he said.

“Everyone has different motions and habits and styles,” I said.

“All you corporeal people look the same to me: heads, limbs, clothes. Who can keep track of which part bends in what direction?”

“I’m always relying on you for information. I thought you were super observant,” I said.

“I’m not observant about the specifications of biological life—not being one myself. I don’t know if a person has twenty-three fingers, twenty-two toes, or twenty cilia-ganglia. I keep abreast of what’s going on in the city because I can talk to people about that. It’s not observation, it’s communication.”

“Alright. Don’t get offended.”

“I’m not offended. I don’t possess the chemical processes to get offended. I’m a gas cloud,” he said, offended.

I sighed.

“Did you see Wallow?” I asked.

“Sort of. I actually scanned him while I was doing my route. I detected a building walking around a few blocks over and I told my fare we were going to take a detour.”

“Did he complain that you were trying to stiff him?”

“No, he was screaming in the back seat. Or, I think he was screaming. If you’re not speaking Colmarian, I have to kind of guess what’s going on. Could have been a mating cry for all I know.”

“Do you know where Wallow went? I mean after he settled down.”

“Yeah, he’s hard to miss. He walks around the city. Pretty nimble for something that big.”

“What he’s doing?”

“Nothing, I think. Other than scaring the hell out of everyone. But my cameras don’t turn that high. He might be reading poetry or knitting a giant sweater,” he said.

“Have you heard anything more about the Boranjame?” I asked, changing the subject.

“Like I said, no one speaks about them so they don’t read our minds.”

“We think a bunch of them have entered this system. Some might even be on Belvaille.”

Zzzho did his static laugh.

“That sounds like a tall tale. Why would a Boranjame ever come here? This is a garbage vacation destination.”

“Gax is here. Well, nearby. But we don’t know why they’ve come. Have you seen anything?” I prodded.

“Are you asking if a space god flagged down my taxi?”

“It doesn’t have to be that. Just whatever.”

“No, Hank. I have not seen a Boranjame buying a cup of coffee or standing in line to get into a nightclub,” he said. “Didn’t you kill one a long time ago?”

“What? No. I didn’t kill Wallow or a Boranjame. Why do people keep thinking I killed these godlike beings and my uncle?” I asked.

“Probably because you’re still around, all those other things are dead, and you kill people for a living,” he said.

“I don’t kill people for a living.”

“That’s right. Interior design? Hospital Bed Quality Tester?”

“Just keep your speakers and microphones open,” I said.

“I can’t close them.”



We came to my warehouse-house and workmen were patching two Wallow-sized holes in the roof. I paid Zzzho and went inside.

“Excellent to have you return, sir,” Cliston greeted me.

“What’s up with the roof?” I asked, seeing the changes take place.

“I am having them put in a skylight while they are up there.”

“Why? The sky is artificial anyway,” I said.

“That is true. However, it may provide us slightly more warning if a Therezian is about to reach into our kitchen,” Cliston replied.

“Oh. So how was Wallow? As an eater. I heard Therezians are pretty efficient in terms of food. I mean, they got to be, right? Wallow hadn’t had a bite in decades and people were smashing into him with cars and stuff,” I said.

“I believe you were the only one who did that, sir. Wallow was…ravenous. We had every single burner, stove, mixer, grill, and blender at full capacity and we could barely keep up. There was a great concern he would grow impatient and injure one or more of us.”

“Well, he knocked some holes in our ceiling,” I said.

“He did, indeed. Though I blame one of my students for that. He spotted Wallow some blocks away, demolishing several buildings as he approached, and the student lowered our front gates in a panic.”

“As if those steel doors could stop a Therezian. Hell, I could break those things open,” I said.

“Precisely. And one does not slam the door in the face of your dinner guest. It was not only dangerous, but rude. I took four points off his grade and gave him a stern warning,” Cliston said severely.

“Yeah, but what was Wallow actually like? The guy has punched and kicked and thrown me all over, but we never really talk. It’s mostly that I see him and wake up in the hospital.”

“I am afraid there was no actual conversation that took place. I cannot even be certain if he enjoyed what we prepared. But I have never witnessed anyone or anything eat more, faster, than Wallow—except on one occasion,” Cliston said.

“You mean me, right?”

“I was not going to say that,” Cliston replied.

“Oh. Cool. So who was it that eats more?” I asked, finally glad to hear about someone fatter than me.

“I was referring to you, sir. I was merely not going to say it. I know your distaste for such references.”

“You’re telling me that I eat more than a malnourished Therezian? He’s like, a hundred times my size.”

“Only on one instance did I witness you consume at a greater pace. When your body was attempting to repair grievous injuries,” he clarified.

“Yeah. My mutation goes into overdrive when I’m about to die. Food is my fuel. But no matter how hungry I’ve been, I’ve never eaten anyone. Like, a person. I can state that with confidence.”

“It is an admirable achievement, sir. Are you hungry now? Unfortunately, I have put my classes on hiatus while repairs are completed. But I would be more than happy to prepare you something.”

“Yeah, I could really go for some Cliston food. I’ve been eating through tubes for nineteen days and Garm just jacked me up on speed. Do I look fidgety?” I asked.

“No, sir. I have detected very few extraneous movements in your behavior over the last few centuries. You are a model of restraint and caloric conservation,” he stated proudly.

“Thanks, Cliston. If it’s okay with you, I think I’ll just lie down here on the floor while you cook. I can look through the holes in the ceiling.”

Cliston paused. I knew he wanted me to change into my house wear and scrub me down and tuck me into bed. But he also knew I had just come from the hospital and when my legs weren’t cooperating, it was tough moving me around. He was a powerfully strong Dredel Led, but not that strong.

“Very well, sir. Rest your eyes and I shall have your meal ready momentarily.”

“You’re the best, Cliston.”





CHAPTER 12


Escape



“You need to get me out of here, Hank,” Delovoa said to me, early the next day.

Cliston was out shopping. It seemed that feeding a Therezian had put a serious dent in our food reserves.

I was sitting in an area that had been designated as our living room. But really it was just a partitioned space in the warehouse. The walls, though they didn’t come close to reaching the roof, were padded, and hanging in the space above were sound baffles. The combination cut down on echoes and made it feel like an actual room in an actual house.

“What do you need my help for, Mr. Money Bags?” I asked sourly. “And how did you get in here?”

“Your side door is broken.”

Delovoa held up a ray gun as proof.

“We’re already trying to fix the ceiling. Why would you blast our door? Haven’t you heard of knocking?”

“Hurts my knuckles. And if you didn’t hear me: I’m attempting to hide. Or at least be inconspicuous. So I’m not going to stand around banging on doors like a plebian.”

“Why are you trying to hide?” I asked.

“I need to get away from Belvaille. Out of this system,” he said.

I laughed.

“You got a 150-million-credit contract with the Navy. The Navy. The guys with a thousand warships surrounding us. The ships that are guarding the Portals, which are the only way in or out of here. You’re not going anywhere. And why would you want to? They haven’t even paid you yet.”

“See, that’s the thing. When you woke up Wallow, he went and smashed one of my storage units.”

“I didn’t ‘wake up Wallow.’ The guy threw me across the city. I’m lucky to be alive.”

“Boohoo. Let’s all cry for Hank. Stop thinking about yourself for a second,” Delovoa demanded.

“And think about you? Just ask the Navy to buy you another laboratory. Or five. I’m sure they don’t cost 200 million credits, or whatever they owe you. Have it be your first installment.”

“When I signed that contract, I possessed most of those devices already. They had been in storage for decades—or longer. I just had to place and calibrate them on the Portals,” Delovoa said.

“Hah. So you weren’t going to actually build anything? You were selling them the old junk in your closet for a fortune.”

“It doesn’t matter what I was going to do or not do. Your friend Wallow destroyed everything.”

“You got a weird concept of what it means to be a friend,” I interrupted. “Just rebuild them.”

“I don’t keep schematics for every single device I’ve ever created. That kind of information could be stolen—or used against me in a court of law. I don’t even remember all the inventions I had out there, let alone how to recreate them.”

“Well, sucks for you. Did Wallow know he was destroying your lab?” I asked.

“It wasn’t a lab. It was a storage unit. No one knew it was mine. It was unmarked and I rarely used it. Wallow stumbled into it—and several other buildings—attempting the shortest route to your grand buffet. As such, I consider this your fault.”

“If you consider Wallow my twin sister it doesn’t make it true. It also doesn’t force me to give a crap. What all did he destroy?” I asked.

“That unit was where I stored all my sex dolls, my sex balls, and sex claws. It’s also where I kept my Portal equipment.”

“That’s a strange organizational method. Why did you have all that stuff together?”

“It’s not unusual. They’re all related. Portals move spaceships across fantastic distances of space almost instantaneously. And sex claws…” he trailed off. “But now it’s flattened by the only thing heavier than you.”

“Some of it might have survived. Wallow isn’t a plasma bomb. Did you search through the wreckage? Or would that hurt your hand?”

“Funny. I should shoot you for bringing this on me,” Delovoa said, pointing his gun at me.

“I was just speaking to the Navy mere hours ago. Should I notify them of your progress and your current location?” I hummed, taking out my tele.

Delovoa dropped his gun and fell to his knees to beseech me.

“Ow,” he said, rubbing his knees. “This floor is painful.”

“It’s a warehouse,” I replied, holding up my arms to point at the cavernous space.

“Hank, you got to get me out of here. They’re going to murder me. If not the Navy, someone else.”

“Having the entire Navy upset at you isn’t bad enough? Who else did you piss off?”

“Every merchant; every ship captain; every planet trading goods with an expiration date; every planet accepting goods in trade; and every criminal involved in any of those processes,” he answered.

I thought about that a moment.

“Wow. So, basically everyone in the galaxy is angry at you and wants you dead?”

“Babies don’t,” he said, standing up from the hard floor.

“Well, find a planet of babies and ask for refugee status. Because other than that, there’s no way you’re escaping Belvaille,” I explained.



Podiver Vance called me later that night.

“Hank! The Cartel are moving. I need you to go check out what they’re up to,” he said.

“Guy, I’d like to, but I just came out of the hospital. I can barely hold down solid food.”

“That’s a lie. I can see you eating right now,” he said, my tele angling as I spoke.

“This? This isn’t food. These are just leftovers. Cliston took off to do crazy Dredel Led stuff so I’m all alone to fend for myself. It’s a miracle I haven’t starved to death.”

“Oh, really? How long has he been gone?”

“I don’t know. Like four…five hours?” I replied.

“I thought you meant he had left the station for weeks or something.”

“He’s a Dredel Led. Technically he’s not allowed to be in the Colmarian Confederation, let alone move around. He’s just running errands,” I said.

“You’re such a lazy slob. I spot a huge kettle of food sitting right there,” he said.

“Like I said, these are leftovers. I found this in one of the kitchens here. It must have been part of what they gave to Wallow and didn’t clean it up.”

“You’re eating Therezian food? What’s it taste like?” he asked, suddenly curious.

“It’s not what I expected. It’s definitely not up to Cliston standards. But it’s also not something you’d think Wallow would like. I wonder if it’s some part of the meal.”

“Like an appetizer?” he asked.

“No. I mean, Wallow had to eat a lot of food, right?”

“Sure.”

“Cliston said they had every single appliance in here working on it. So probably it wasn’t like forty complete small Thereizian dishes they put together. Instead, each station was making one tiny portion of the whole thing. So this is maybe the equivalent of the sauce on one dish. Or step three in some ten-stage combination. I’ll still eat it, because I’m starving, but it’s not all that great.”

“Hasn’t it been sitting there for a week?” he asked.

“I heated it up.”

“Anyway. My asset spotted thirty Cartel together. They’re up to something big. You don’t have to fight them, just watch. Thirty guys aren’t there for a card game,” Podiver said. “They’re out in the middle of nowhere.”

“Everywhere is nowhere. We’re in space.”

“They’re one block from the northwestern corner of the city,” he replied.

“Yeah, that is nowhere,” I agreed. “Don’t you have some people who can take care of this?”

“I buy and sell goods, Hank. If I had an army on the payroll, I wouldn’t have had to hire you in the first place,” he said.

“What about the guy who spotted them?”

“That was my secretary. She was picking up some gifts for my mistress.”

“Oh, that’s nice,” I said.

“Not really. She’s trying to blackmail me.”

“The secretary or the mistress?”

“I’m starting to believe they both are,” he sighed.

“Belvaille’s a tough crowd,” I said. “Northwest? I used to own a restaurant not far from there.”

“I used to have hopes and dreams—and then I came to Belvaille. I’ll give you a raise to check on the Cartel now,” he said.

“We agreed on 63,248 credits, right?”

“You can’t remember anything except your fees, can you?”

“Nothing else matters.” I shrugged.

“How about 75,000? Nice, round number,” he said.

“Hey. If I provided you with a car that had lots of bumpers and lights on it, could you take off the bumpers and lights and make it go faster?” I asked.

“Not if Garm put those things there,” he warned.

“Jerk. Alright. 75. Let me finish eating—”

“No time. Who knows how long they’ll stay put.”

“Okay. These leftovers are starting to congeal in my mouth, anyway,” I replied. “I hope this wasn’t the waste or scum they scraped off of whatever they made for Wallow.”



I got reliable Zzzho to shuttle me to my encounter. It was about as far away from my house as you could get without a space suit. But there wasn’t much traffic because it was the Belvaille equivalent of night.

While we didn’t have a star, we still dimmed the lights for half the day. Not every species had circadian rhythms but damn near everything evolved around some kind of celestial body. Therefore, they were genetically coded to either like or dislike daylight. So it suited everyone that it should come and go.

There wasn’t much this far north except the telescopes. The telescopes were the other thing, besides the nearby Portals, that made Belvaille noteworthy. They were a technological marvel of our distant past.

Enormous installations, the telescopes were utilized to direct traffic across the galaxy and facilitate intergalactic communication. As well as spy on other empires. They might use them to spy on us, but we didn’t care because we weren’t that interesting.

The Navy controlled the telescopes and, outside their designated area at the port, this was the only other concentration of military personnel. As such, I liked to avoid this region whenever possible. Not only was there nothing out here, but it was wall-to-wall soldiers.

The Navy knew what Belvaille was. They simply didn’t give a damn. The Navy wasn’t in a position to make morality calls about the various populations it interacted with.

There were 50,000 species in the Colmarian Confederation. Not planets. Species. There were way more than 50,000 planets and way, way more cities, ports, space stations, and habitats that housed the Navy. Each one of those places had its own culture, cliques, and quirks. And the Navy could spend all its time and resources making them ideal military institutions, or it could ignore the locals, and do actual Navy stuff.

If you didn’t bother the Navy they—usually—wouldn’t bother you.

Loitering near, looking at, or mentioning the telescopes was coming perilously close to “bothering the Navy.” The devices were incredibly important not only to the military, but to our entire empire. Not even the ballsiest scheme by the most cutthroat of Belvaille scumbags ever included the telescopes.

The Navy had commandeered the neighborhood immediately surrounding the telescopes. Not only to keep them safe, but to house the army of logistics, repairs, operators, and soldiers that dealt with the gargantuan devices. The telescope installations covered almost the entire north side of the space station—much like the west side was the dock and port facilities. So I figured there were maybe six or seven miles of continuous telescope arrays, which was like an astronomer’s wet dream.

But what the Cartel were doing out here was a mystery. There really wasn’t anything of importance—at least that I could think of.

I had Zzzho drop me off four blocks away. I was armed with Frank’s shotgun and twelve spare shells. So that was a total of nine shots from my double-barrel, though I didn’t expect to get in any firefights. I packed my binoculars and I had a cone-shaped listening device which seemed to work about half the time I used it.

I also had a small bowl of the Wallow leftovers which I had to keep stirring so it wouldn’t solidify. Along with that, I had two bottles of wine, four bottles of beer, a few bags of crackers, and an uncooked salami. I would have brought more, but I ran out of pockets.

As I walked up the quiet street in the dim light of Belvaille’s nearly-nighttime, I sounded approximately like a noisy dinner party—without the sparkling conversation. If Cliston had been around, he could have dressed me in a better outfit and made allowances for all the gear I required.

When I got about a half block from the start of the Navy section, I spotted a tank.

MBT’s ego machine was a bloated, ancient version. It had been on a cargo hauler full of surplus gear that passed through Belvaille on its way to either get scrapped or recycled or simply put out of reach of civilians.

The Navy on Belvaille had real tanks. They were sleek, modern things that were completely silent and super deadly—I assumed. I’d never actually seen them do anything other than be scary. I knew from Garm that the Navy had three tanks in this area of the space station. The only reason they hadn’t used them on Wallow was because they were required to stay up here.

I also suspected whoever was in charge of telescope security had more common sense than the idiots at the port—who had felt the best way to deal with a raging Therezian inferno was to bodily sacrifice yourself in it.

I pressed myself against the nearest building to wait for the tank to pass. But the tank stopped and swiveled its turret directly at me.

I took a step to the side and the cannon moved to match me. This was very disconcerting. While I was bulletproof, a typical bullet was around 5 to 7 millimeters. And this tank was sporting a 175-millimeter cannon that fired super-supersonic, armor-piercing, high-explosive shells.

Before I could decide whether to pee my pants or faint, a call came on my tele. I wasn’t about to answer it, but it didn’t need to be answered.

“You are trespassing on Navy property. State your business or be destroyed,” the voice from my pocket declared.

I took out my tele, smiling at the tank as I did so. On my screen, some Navy personage or other appeared mildly aggravated. The lighting and office backdrop indicated the caller was not inside the doom-vehicle in front of me.

“Hi. Lovely evening,” I began with good cheer. “I’m actually a half block from the official unofficial start of the Navy zone.”

The screen blurred and I could tell he was checking on my claim.

“Unless, of course, you guys have carved out a little more of Belvaille and neglected to tell us. Which is fine! But, you know, I don’t read the Navy brochures, or maps, or literature, or know if you guys even have any of those,” I babbled.

“What is your business here?” he asked, after the screen returned to normal.

“Do I need to have business? Can’t I just be out in my city?” I asked innocently.

“Be warned: if you enter Navy property, we will open fire,” he said.

“Yeah, well, be warned—” I began. But then I took a judicious pause. My centuries of tough-guy instincts had caused me to blurt that out. But these were not saucy freebooters who enjoyed a good exchange of expletives. These were humorless soldiers—who had a tank. “If you open fire at me, I will run away crying,” I finished.

There was no smile or smirk or twitch. The call merely ended.

The tank righted its turret and continued moving. I turned around and headed back a block, so as to be absolutely certain I didn’t get any closer, even by accident.

This was why no one liked hanging out near the telescopes.

I began walking around a few blocks in the safe zone. After an hour and twenty-five minutes of aimlessly wandering, I was starting to suspect I had missed the Cartel—if they had been here at all. Podiver’s secretary-mistress blackmail schemes might have inadvertently tangled me up as an innocent bystander.

I was about ready to call it a night when I rounded a corner and saw the entire street was lousy with Cartel. I hastily stepped back into cover. My various bottles, pots, equipment, and firearms produced a racket similar to a liquor store being dragged down the street by a Therezian.

But no one pointed or began shooting or asked me what vintages I stocked, so I assumed they hadn’t heard.

There were far more than thirty of the guys. They were almost literally at the northwest corner of the city, where the west and northern walls joined. This was well past the Navy region and probably more than a mile from the nearest telescope.

I was three blocks from the Cartel, though they were spread across a wide intersection.

Carefully, I removed my binoculars and listening cone. It took a while to get the cone properly set up, with the earphones in, the device angled, and the settings dialed.

After listening for a few moments, I realized I could only hear myself chewing. Either it was picking up my local sounds, or I was actually that loud of an eater. I put it away and relied on my binoculars.

The Cartel seemed to be doing…nothing. They were merely standing there. They weren’t swaying or fidgeting or polishing their gloves or helmets. If they were speaking to one another, they had exactly zero non-verbal interplay. No nodding or gestures.

With this wide collection of Cartel, I noticed all the various types of uniform—if you could even call them uniforms. Their mode of dress was not identical. Not even their helmets were exactly the same. Not only different colors, but different constructions. More than style differences or rank differences or job functions, they seemed to incorporate climate considerations as well—as if they came from different planets. Such as there were a few people wearing heavy jackets. Some had on thick boots while others had flimsy shoes. Some had on short sleeves. And a precious few even wore shorts—their knobby knees on display.

However, I saw they were all armed. Most carried pistols, but where the weapons were stored varied. Some Cartel wore them on their thighs. Some on their hips. Some had underslung holsters. A few had rifles on their backs. Others carried backpacks.

After ten minutes of observing, I wasn’t entirely sure the Cartel members were actually alive. The only thing that gave them away was their breathing and every once in a great while they would take a few steps this or that way. Maybe to prevent their lack of circulation causing gangrene.

I was attempting to mentally draft a report for Podiver Vance so I could get paid: “Target spotted and monitored. I have ascertained that their objective is to become the galaxy’s most boring gang. It is my opinion that they have succeeded.”

I took turns watching with my eyes for movement and then looking through the binoculars. I was close enough that even at the lowest magnification, I was really zoomed in.

There was some unusual movement to the right side and I looked.

A Cartel man kept tipping and tilting his head. Like he had water in his ear he was trying to dislodge. The few Cartel around him noticed, but didn’t do anything out of the ordinary other than give him more room. He seemed to have a bit of gold coloring on his helmet and some red insignias on his coat and pants. But if he was higher or lower rank or just part of the gang, it was impossible to tell.

Finally, the head-twitcher reached up and took off his helmet. He must have been having an issue with it. The man was facing mostly away from me, but he looked like a typical Colmarian male—not that there was such a thing. Of average build, average height, average everything. I had been hoping he was a lizard or translucent slime or anything more interesting than what he actually was.

He fiddled with his helmet to try and fix it. He raised it, trying to hold it up to the dim Belvaille light. He began to swivel around to find a better vantage so he could see what the issue was with his mask.

It was then that I saw his face. I knew the man.

And then the telescopes exploded.

All of them.





CHAPTER 13


Oh, Noze



A long time ago, Garm had Delovoa set up an alert system on Belvaille.

It was not an official system under official governance. It was to be used in the event that the city was collectively compromised, and compromised in such a way that made normal communication impossible.

It took me ten minutes to find and figure out how to use the system, but I sent a message on it using my tele:



Telescropes depstoyed dosn’t gosh home Navys poptibly pixed off ant gettses you—signed Gank



Yeah, it had a few typos.

And it could not easily be considered poetry—or even especially coherent. But I think I can be forgiven my flubs considering Delovoa neglected to put in any spell or error correction. Also, it was written while I was running away from the wreckage of what used to be the Colmarian Confederation’s most advanced galactic telescopes.

Each one of those arrays was worth more than Belvaille itself. Each one was more valuable—by maybe a factor of a billion—than all those lifeforms existing on the city.

So it was understandable I was not feeling especially whimsical or profound when I composed my warning.

I was busy fleeing for my life.

My gut told me that Cliston would not be monitoring the Criminal Information Network because he was not a criminal or interested in criminal information. He was a butler. But I’d hate for him to get caught up in the crapstorm that was sure to follow the telescope sabotage.

So I sent Cliston a private message. I then turned off my tele and stashed it at my home. Well, not so much “stashed” as threw it on the roof as I hurried away. The Navy had already demonstrated their ability to tap into my tele, I didn’t want them to be able to use it to locate me. Because I was pretty sure they would interrogate, kill, and then interrogate my corpse if they were to find me.

I hightailed it to a place where I could lay low for a while and hoped all this would pass.



Nine hours into my sequestered hibernation, Garm showed up.

“You’re wanted for questioning in connection with the loss of the telescopes. And between you and me and my chipped fingernails, they’re likely going to do way worse than question you,” she said.

“How did you find me?” I asked.

“You’re not easy to miss. I was pretty busy listening to admirals across the galaxy scream and curse, but once I got away from those productive meetings, it took me twenty-four minutes to actually locate you.”

“But how?” I asked, worried soldiers were about to kick down the door any second. “Did I leave a trail or something?”

“You’re in a pancake shop, Hank.”

“Yeah, but it’s closed. This is one of my safehouses. There’s nothing here.”

“Then why are you covered with pancakes and surrounded by pancake paraphernalia?” she asked.

“I got to eat. Cliston took off and left me alone for like…three days. I get hungry. But why does the Navy want to talk to me? I didn’t have anything to do with it.”

“You were seen next to the telescopes immediately before their destruction,” she said.

“I didn’t identify myself. They told me to move away and I did. And that was long before the explosions. How do they know that was me? It could have been some other big guy,” I said.

“Hank, you were standing in front of a Mark XVII Urban Battle Tank. It has robust scanning systems. In addition, while you were facing off against that forty-three-million-credit war machine, you were nonchalantly eating food.”

“Leftovers!”

“They also called you on your tele,” she said.

“Oh, yeah.”

“So you shouldn’t be surprised they actually knew who they were calling. And now you’re wanted.”

“You don’t think I did, though, do you?”

“If I did, I wouldn’t be here in person. Besides, you’re dumb—really dumb—but not that dumb,” she said. “Do you have any clues who might have done it?”

“Someone else was there. You should sit down,” I said.

“I’m not sitting down. I’m not a fragile great-grandmother with arthritic joints and a bad heart who fondly remembers the good old days—there weren’t any. Tell me what you have to tell me,” she demanded.

“Last night, right before the telescopes were blown, I saw Thad Elon.”

Garm sat down.

“Are you sure it was him?” she asked.

“I think I know Thad Elon when I see him. I’ve spent weeks with the guy when we were on my ship so that we could put him in a duffel bag and dump him into space, lightyears from anyone or anything. I witnessed him start a galactic civil war which destroyed the original Colmarian Confederation. I personally disintegrated him—which took hours to accomplish and his own cooperation. I shot him point-blank in the face with an autocannon. And I was around when he forcibly mutated millions of people in this very system,” I said.

“And you gained the ability to fly,” she quipped.

“Yeah, right.”

But it was true. Most mutations did nothing. Some were detrimental. And a precious few were valuable. Thad Elon had inadvertently given me the ability to fly. But I had about the thrust of a bottle rocket and I weighed far more than a bottle. So even in zero gravity it was fairly useless. Decades had passed since I received that mutation and I hadn’t used the ability at all. I suspect it had atrophied so much that I couldn’t even scoot myself in space if I had a running start towards a black hole.

“Well, what did Thad Elon say?” Garm asked me.

“I didn’t actually sit down and have tea with him. He’s at the tippy top on the list of people I don’t like to associate with. You know, on account of him being an evil god. He was hanging out with the Cartel when I saw him.”

“Cartel? Doing what?”

“Fixing his helmet. That’s the only reason I recognized him. Whether he was leading them, or infiltrating them, or managing them, or just slumming it as a fun-loving gang member, I don’t know.”

“It’s no coincidence that Thad Elon shows up and our telescopes get erased. If he is in charge of an organization the size of the Cartel, he could do unbelievable harm,” she said.

“Yeah, I was thinking the same thing. If we were smart, we’d get the hell out of Belvaille. Out of the whole region. Thad Elon has proven time and again that he is impervious and immortal. We’re neither.”

“No one is going anywhere. This system is locked. And if you think we had traffic issues before, we just lost our telescopes. I’d say the Colmarian Confederation was just set back a few thousand years in its progress,” she said.

“Okay, I know the telescopes were important. But can’t they just make new ones?” I asked.

“You don’t know a tenth of what those things did—and even knowing so little, you were wise enough to run and hide when you realized you might be held responsible. The empire that created those telescopes no longer exists. It would take monumental effort and coordination to rebuild them,” she said.

“And the Confederation isn’t exactly keen on effort and coordination,” I added.

“Right. What’s amazing is how he, or anyone, even accomplished it. If we gave Wallow double chainsaws that actually fit his hands, it would still take him a month to destroy even one telescope.”

“I bet a few thousand Navy personnel died in those blasts,” I said.

“No. That’s the weird thing. Last I heard, there were two casualties. Destruction on that scale should have wiped out half the city’s population. Just from the gasses, overpressure, fires, debris, or whatever side effects were created from annihilating square miles of machinery inside an enclosed city. But there was almost nothing,” she explained.

“It’s another Thad Elon miracle,” I said sarcastically.

“Are you sure he did it? I don’t know the psychopath as well as you do, but demolition isn’t really his thing. Did you witness him in the act?” she asked.

“No. I told you, he was fiddling with his hat. None of the Cartel were planting explosives or firing rocket clusters that I saw. We were a mile away when it happened.”

“So then it might not have been them at all?” she asked.

“I guess. But who else would do it?”

“Instead of asking who in the entire galaxy, let’s try and rule him out first. Why would Thad Elon blow up some telescopes?” she asked. “They’re really important to us, but I can’t imagine he would give a damn about them.”

“I don’t know, Garm. Every single time we’ve tried to figure out what Thad Elon was up to, we’ve not only guessed wrong, but he has beaten us. Beaten us badly. Collapse-of-civilization badly.”

“I know. I was there too, remember? But we can’t just sit here and hope he means well this one time. We’ve got to be proactive,” she said.

“He’s billions of years old. Asking me to try and unravel his plans is like asking a five-year-old to play chess with the guy who invented chess; and who invented the species that enjoys chess; and invented the space roads they use to travel to chess conventions. It’s my five-year-old opinion that we run like hell.”

“And I explained we can’t get out. It wasn’t hyperbole. Even if you still had your junky old spaceship, nothing and no one is leaving. If a ship so much as turns on a headlight without proper authorization at this point, it will get blown to dust.”

“Well…I suppose if Thad Elon is running the Cartel then…” I swiveled my head and gave up.

“What?” she asked.

“There’s no point. We can’t think like Thad Elon. It’s like trying to imagine what a rabid jellyfish thinks about when it has indigestion. It’s so many orders of magnitude away from our own reality. I do crooked gang stuff. You do crooked government stuff. He’s the creator of like…half the empires in the galaxy.”

“And maybe the Portals,” she said.

“Yeah. We don’t even know all the stuff he’s done. But every species knows him. And they either worship him, revile him, or feel he owes them child support money. Any way you look at it, that’s a whole lot of influence for one guy and every second we stay in his immediate vicinity, we increase our risk of violent death dramatically,” I said.

“Hank. I agree with you. But we can’t leave. No one can leave. We either stuff ourselves in a crawlspace and hope he doesn’t flood the crawlspaces with acid—” she began.

“And knowing him, he would.”

“Or we figure out what he’s doing and stop him.”

“Tell the Navy. They got to be good for something, right?” I asked.

“Thad Elon is a myth. Very few people alive, outside of temples and insane asylums, honestly believe there is a physical Thad Elon walking around today, calmly adjusting his headwear. We have national holidays around the guy—probably a hundred or so at this point. If I file a report saying Thad Elon is a Cartel member on Belvaille, they’ll promptly give me a lobotomy.”

“What about Gax? You said there’s five Boranjame here? And Wallow is awake. Maybe there’s going to be some Wrestle Slam Main Extravaganza with all the gods in the galaxy,” I joked. But then I grew serious. “This is so not the city to be in right now.”

“Okay, we get it. Life sucks. Either jump out an airlock or do something about it,” she said.

“I tried talking to Wallow and ended up in a coma. And he’s officially the least-powerful powerful person on Belvaille right now. How about you do something for a change?”

Garm sighed.

“There really might be another civil war.”

“What? Why? Because of some telescopes?” I asked.

“Because our shipping and communications are broken. Our empire spans three-quarters of the galaxy. When people can’t talk and can’t trade, they turn inward. They take care of themselves. If they don’t know if a food supply that’s eight months away is going to come or not, nine months of no food is too late to start trying to make other deals. I don’t mean it will be violent. Just…kind of the way things were a long time ago. A much looser Confederation—with a lot more flags.”

“That doesn’t sound too bad. We’ll make less money here on Belvaille, but crooks always find a way to be crooked. Do you think we could be invaded? Thad Elon created a civil war already, maybe he wants to up the scales and have the Colmarian Confederation be attacked.”

“We’re always being attacked. We’re so big we don’t even know we’re being attacked half the time. If anything, I think it will make us way safer. Because every other empire uses the Portals too, and we have unprecedented traffic congestion,” she said.

“Yeah, but only cargo ships. An armada could simply blow those up without needing to put on their turn signals and merge.”

“Space is a tricky place with its own rules and realities. You can’t destroy enormous cargo ships without also creating enormous debris fields—which are really pesky when you need to move through them. As usual, the Colmarian Confederation’s own incompetence is its greatest defense.”

“So as landlocked hostages surrounded by supervillains, what’s our next step?” I asked.

“If we can’t think like Thad Elon, maybe we capture and ask him. From what I remember, he wasn’t as physically terrifying as a Boranjame or Therezian. Just really old and smart.”

“I don’t think we know what he can or can’t do. I believe he let us get away with stuff because he was so bored he didn’t care—and nothing we did mattered to him. But even so, he’s found the perfect group to hide in. A society of silent bucketheads.”

“Yeah, maybe we can scan for him,” she said.

“Or we could get on a shuttle and visit Gax. He’s always pleasantly terrifying.”

“I feel like I’m repeating myself here: no one can leave this city. No shuttles. No ships. No bathtubs with enclosed tops. We are closed,” Garm said.

“Alright. I don’t know Gax’s tele number. I’m betting it’s unlisted.”

Garm looked at her own tele.

“As useless as this has been, I have to get back to not working.”

“It wasn’t useless, I told you about Thad Elon. Do you have more important screaming meetings to listen to?” I asked.

“Yeah. Admirals have amazing vocal range. I think it must be a requirement for the position.”

“Just think if they used their powers for good. We could have the best operas in the galaxy,” I said.

“Sure. I don’t know what to tell you, Hank. I’m going to search around on my side and see if I can make any sense of this.”

“What’s clear to me is we got more bad days ahead. Thad Elon has never been a herald of good luck.”

“No,” she agreed.

“And someone just wiped out miles of advanced telescopes without a trace. If they’re capable of doing that, they can do a lot more,” I said.





CHAPTER 14


Small Business



To stay ahead of the law, I decided to switch safehouses.

It wasn’t that the Navy was specifically hunting for me. But it felt like someone had kicked a hornet’s nest. And instead of angry insects buzzing around, there were tanks and soldiers constantly in your face.

Of course, this was only natural. The significant contingent of forces that had been guarding the telescopes were now free to wander and harass. And the soldiers at the port weren’t going to allow themselves to be outdone by the telescope authorities.

The port actually housed a very significant armed forces presence, though they didn’t belong to any single unit or battalion or organization. The Belvaille barracks was where soldiers from across the galaxy would come to either begin, end, transfer, or take a vacation from their careers aboard Colmarian military vessels. It was a lot easier to have sailors go in and out of a central hub than to force a battleship to make house calls across the galaxy picking up individuals. The sailors might be waiting on Belvaille for six months or even six years, depending on where their destination ship currently was in its rotation, but eventually the ships would return to the central Portals of Belvaille. And then it was a small matter of shuttling people around.

So now the streets were lousy with soldiers. Soldiers who may have been stationed here for years, bored out of their minds; or who just had the blackest of black marks stamped on their résumés when the telescopes they were guarding were destroyed.

Hassling the citizens of Belvaille uncovered a veritable potpourri of criminal activities that absolutely shocked, shocked the military leaders. Of course, it was ridiculous to think that any of these black marketeers, counterfeiters, drug dealers, or loan sharks had anything whatsoever to do with the destruction of intergalactic telescopes. In fact, most would be extremely hard-pressed to define what a telescope was used for—other than housing Navy personnel.

But the Navy brass had to cover their collective posteriors and hounding the locals was seen as doing something in response to the telescopes. Even if that something was entirely pointless.

In consequence, now was not a good time to be roaming the streets engaged in criminal activities.

My new safehouse was chosen with the idea of getting far away from the main Navy thoroughfares. It wasn’t very difficult. They had fuel costs and sleeping quarters the same as anyone else. So it was just a matter of moving as far away from their barracks and recharging stations as possible. That, by definition, would cut down on the number of times you were likely to be stopped and questioned by an armored vehicle.

My safehouse was in the far southwest of the city. The building had been used to make meatballs at one point. And meat sticks. And meat patties. Artificial meat, obviously. You couldn’t get a lot of fresh meat on a space station. In fact, with the shipping situation the way it was, I suspected all the meat, whether fresh, frozen, preserved, or disgusting was suddenly worth a fortune.

Speaking just for myself, I would pay an awful lot for a hot dog right about now.

It wasn’t exactly by choice that all my safehouses were also capable of producing food. It was merely supply and demand. The cheapest storefronts were those that had gone out of business. And when Cliston had started his cooking classes, he put a lot of restaurants and food services out of commission. Because suddenly the locals had a concept of what decent food was—and wasn’t.

As I was making myself at home in my safehouse, I heard some noise coming from the back. Specifically, Meat Fabrication Room Two.

“Come back soon,” a woman called, followed by the noise of a slamming industrial door.

I went back and saw the meat equipment had been replaced with candles, silk screens, and beds. Two women stood by the rear entrance.

“What are you all doing here?” I asked.

“Working, Hank. What’s it look like?” Mister Fispin replied.

Mister Fispin wasn’t actually a mister. She was a madame. Who knows how people got nicknames? Probably it was some clever inside joke from a century ago that everyone had to keep dealing with long after it stopped making sense or was amusing.

She was a thick woman, but not in the typical ways. She had an enormous neck, shoulders, and upper arms. But her body tapered off and continued to get smaller and smaller the lower you went. She looked like an inverted pyramid with comically dainty feet. She had a mass of orange hair puffed out like an afro to make her tiny head seem proportional on her wide shoulders—but the illusion didn’t exactly work.

I knew she was a saucy gal who dealt with other saucy gals, and she ran a multi-service, multi-species brothel. A lot of cargo ships came through Belvaille. That was a lot of sailors who had been in space for months or years.

Prostitution wasn’t a huge business on Belvaille. It didn’t rake in the kind of cash that skimming goods did. But it was an omnipresent activity no matter what the social or economic climate. Though it was a bit misleading to refer to it as prostitution.

It often wasn’t even about sex. With 50,000 unique races, it wasn’t easy to accomplish interspecies fornication. An analogy I remember hearing was that you couldn’t plug a hair dryer into a shallow swamp and expect it to work.

So the Belvaille version of prostitution was largely about companionship and making some lonely sailors feel a little less lonely. Scratching an itch before they went insane and flew a million tons of spaceship into a star. That said, there was still physical stimulation involved. But because of species diversity, it was often difficult for one race to even realize they were getting off another race. Which made it less intimate but also less gross.

I’d dealt with this business off and on for centuries. But it was a tricky occupation that was largely about personality and connections. They simply didn’t need hired muscle like me very often. Nothing was being stolen, or traded, or borrowed. They didn’t have turf wars, or taxes, require distribution, or need raw materials.

So they kind of did their own thing and everyone mostly left them alone. Because even if we didn’t personally use their services, we understood they were valuable to the mental well-being of the city and its visitors. As dangerous as Belvaille was, having it filled with horny aliens would make it a hundred times worse.

“This is my safehouse,” I said, crossing my arms.

“It was a meat processing plant that went under. And now we’re using it,” Mister Fispin replied, crossing her arms.

I looked at the other woman. She seemed to be a kind of small amphibian-type thing. I couldn’t tell gender or if that even applied. The amphibian blinked its enormous black eyes at me, and walked away, after making an odd croaking noise.

“I was here first,” I continued.

“So? You want a piece of candy? It’s a vacant building. We can share.”

“I don’t want to share. Why aren’t you back at…what was it? 84th Avenue?” I asked, trying to remember where I had seen her last.

“You’re thinking of Della Melore. I was on Crush Skull across from Sam-Sam’s Hardware and Pistol Pizza,” she said.

“I like that pizza. So why aren’t you there now? You expanding? Because I’m kind of using this spot.”

“Navy shut us down after you blew up the telescopes,” she said.

“How could I blow up miles of telescopes?” I asked.

“Who knows how you do things, Hank? But I know you killed that angel, Frank,” she replied, anger in her voice.

“He wasn’t an angel and I didn’t kill him. Or blow up the telescopes. Or steal fire from the gods. How can the Navy ‘shut you down’? Did they revoke your sexy party time license?” I joked.

“No. They threw in tear gas and dragged our customers out by their ankles.”

“Oh. Yeah, I guess that would qualify as shutting you down. But look, I need my space,” I said.

“You aren’t that big. These are huge rooms. We only need one. Or two.”

“I’m not sharing space with a brothel. I have serious work to do.”

“Like what? You have any other relatives you need to murder?” she asked.

“I saved this city. From Wallow. That was me. How about a little respect?”

“That wasn’t you. That was Cliston. You just got punted across the city. Any fool can do that.”

“Not and survive,” I said.

“So you want applause for living? I’m pretty sure that living is thanks enough.”

“I don’t want you here. This is mine,” I declared.

“Says who?” she asked. “Because I cleared it with the actual landlord, the previous owner, MTB’s goons, Undermarshal Esher of the Navy, and Garm.”

“Well…so?” I replied. “I was here first. And that whole wall had sacks of meat filler on it. What did you do with them?”

“We traded it for beds and massagers and oils and whatnot. Navy confiscated or destroyed damn near everything,” she said.

“That’s dumb. The Portals are practically closed. Meat is way more valuable than some stupid blankets,” I said.

“It wasn’t real meat.”

“I know that. Those aren’t real feather beds, neither,” I said, pointing.

“Why would we want beds made of feathers? We aren’t birds,” she asked, confused.

“It’s an old…look, you need to find another place.”

“Do we? Or what? You going to kill us? Not many brothels are left open right now. You want to be the guy who crashed the telescopes, killed your uncle, and shut down the last meat packing plant?”

Mister Fispin had an enviable bargaining position. But I was all kinds of stubborn.

“I want 40% of your take. I want access to any information you gather. And don’t go into my rooms,” I said.

“Pfft. I wouldn’t give 40% to my mother, come back from the grave, who begged me that she needed the money to buy her way out of the fires of hell.”

“Wow. You can talk like that about your mom and yet you’re going to give me crap about Frank?”

“My mother was a whore—figuratively, it’s not a family business. But you didn’t deserve your sweet uncle,” she said.

“I probably did, actually,” I mused. “But those are my terms.”

“I don’t need a pimp,” she said. “I am a pimp. You can’t do nothing to me.”

“I can strut around here in my underwear, eating and farting and chatting with your customers. Unless you can convince Wallow to lend a hand, absolutely no one can make me budge. Who knows, maybe I’ll be good for business,” I said, turning around and rubbing my butt sultrily.

“I’ll pay 5% for rent. Otherwise, it feels like extortion—and no one, ’cept no one, extorts me, baby. That’s my fee for you moving anything heavy for us and keeping your clothes on and your rear end to yourself,” she said.

“Alright,” I agreed. “But I have a lot of planning to do. So you also need to keep it down.”

“Hank,” she said. “It’s a brothel. It is what it is.”



It was a punishment living directly next door to a brothel. Though whether it was a greater punishment for them or me wasn’t clear.

There were seriously important things that needed my attention, but I couldn’t really do them at the moment. I couldn’t hunt down Thad Elon, as the city was crawling with soldiers and the god in question was incognito. I couldn’t speak to the Boranjame Gax, who lived off station, because I couldn’t get off station. I couldn’t find out if there were or weren’t any other Boranjame on Belvaille because no one had seen them and they were magical, soothsaying, crystalline mutants. What the goals of the Cartel were, besides interplanetary fashion coordination, was impossible to guess. And at this point, I was starting to believe that I actually had murdered my uncle, because I seemed to be the only person who disliked him.

It wasn’t that I was giving up. This situation would burn itself out soon enough. This was a fundamental difference between someone like Garm and myself. Garm couldn’t sit still. She couldn’t allow a moment to pass without taking a step forward on at least one goal she had. She’d spin herself out just for the sake of moving.

But I appreciated the strategic importance of doing absolutely nothing. Inaction was a deeply misunderstood and disrespected state of being. Yes, I could hop outside, get knocked around by some soldiers, maybe spit some blood on one of their shiny tanks, but for what purpose?

This situation was too hot to last for very long. The Navy would give up with its half-assed martial law, because they simply weren’t a police force. They were barely a military force. On one hand, it was impressive to say they arrested 6,000 criminals. But sooner or later the bean counters were going to realize it cost them a million credits of resources to apprehend each crook and the galaxy was no safer for it.

Belvaille had been lawless longer than the Colmarian Confederation had even existed—at least this version of the Confederation. And unless the city was purged with fire and bleach, it was going to remain Belvaille. It was only a matter of time.

So in between steadfastly ignoring the sounds and smells emanating from Mister Fispin’s next-door brothel, I spent my energies examining Frank’s grade-school electronic map I had recovered from his apartment.

The map definitely had Portals listed. Or at least some Portals. But the notations he made were in weird Frank code. But man, there were a lot of notes. Hundreds and hundreds of entries were all over the map. As I drilled down to a section, more and more notations would come up. It was clear that Frank had spent actual weeks updating this chart. But what he was recording was unclear.

And if it was unclear to me, his nephew, of the same rare species, in the same line of work, and who might have killed him, I couldn’t figure out who this map was for. I suppose it could simply be like a diary. Just reams and reams of personal notes speckled around a map of systems I know for a fact he had never personally visited. But it was an odd, taciturn diary with no mention of the millions of times he had screwed me over.

The notations and notes were linked together. They went through the Portals, skipped along planets, and many of them came back to one central entry:



Big ski citey, ants

* find? whar? others?

* destry? dactivate it?



When the Rettosian species bioengineered our Ontakian race, they definitely skimped on whatever part of the brain was responsible for spelling.

Whatever this entry was, there were scores of links coming back to it.

If I knew what the purpose of the map was, at least it would give me some words or phrases I could search for. But I simply couldn’t decipher the abbreviations without having at least a hint of what was going on.

Was it the transgalactic migratory patterns of stellar dust? Was it a list of where you could buy the best popsicle lizards? I just didn’t know.



I decided to pack it up and go for a walk. Garm had told me that Delovoa was, for the moment, still on the good-guy list of the Navy. They foolishly believed Delovoa was capable of recreating his millennia of gadgets and installing them on the Portals.

So his house was safer than my own safehouse. And I suspected it didn’t smell like kinky alien sex because of an adjacent brothel.

When it was the dead of night, I trekked out, taking Frank’s map with me. My hope was that Delovoa could decipher what it was for.

While most streets on the city were incredibly uniform, their conditions were not. Some roads were strewn with debris and hadn’t been resurfaced in decades. Which made them less likely to be frequented by military vehicles.

It was using these dirty hobo roads that I made my way across the city. I could have called Zzzho in his taxi, but I felt it was safer to violate curfew on foot. And I knew Zzzho wasn’t going to try and make a getaway from a tank if it came down to that.

I wasn’t especially inconspicuous walking around. I was a big mutant carrying a big electronic map. But sometimes I felt it worked to your advantage to play against type. If I tried sneaking in the shadows, I’d still be damn obvious to anyone with eyeballs. So striding boldly down the road made it seem like I had nothing to hide.

Just an average citizen with an average map eating some meat byproducts. Or I thought they were meat byproducts. Sure tasted chemically. I hoped it wasn’t some cleaning product for the machinery. It had a decent texture, whatever it was.

Delovoa’s place was to the south of the port and a bit to the west. It was a large building that had at one point been a mansion. Then an office. Then a clinic, when Belvaille had a brief health craze. Then a warehouse with way too many staircases. Then a few other things I couldn’t remember, and on to a mad scientist’s lair.

It was late at night and I rang the doorbell, which sounded like a peppy mausoleum tune.

“Good evening, sir,” the butler said, upon opening the door.

“Cliston! What are you doing here?” I asked, startled.

“He’s working for me—with me,” Delovoa corrected. He was wearing a burgundy robe, slippers, and some kind of silk cap on his bulbous, bald head. His three eyes darted around, yet each conveyed a different emotion. One eye was tranquil. One was snobbish. One manic.

“Would you care to come in?” Cliston asked.

“Maybe he doesn’t want to,” Delovoa interrupted. “He might be selling something.”

“It is impolite to have a guest wait on the steps to one’s home during a state of martial law,” Cliston chastised.

“Too true. Too right. Excellent point, Cliston,” Delovoa stated quickly.

I attempted to barge inside, but Cliston moved aside and all but swept me in, removing my coat and electronic map, and the drain cleaner I had been eating before I could notice.

“Why are you here, Cliston? I’m at my meat packing safehouse. It’s very remote and protected and doesn’t really smell like gigolo activities,” I said.

“I vacated our apartment upon your instructions,” Cliston began. “You had advised the telescope situation would precipitate a crackdown. You were prescient as always.”

“Lucky guess, more like,” Delovoa said.

“And you,” I said, pointing. “It’s the height of low class to steal someone’s butler.”

“I would never refer to Cliston as my ‘butler.’ What an insult. He is my teammate. Referring to him as merely a butler is a disgrace upon Cliston’s character!” Delovoa said with umbrage.

“It is the preferred nomenclature for those in my position, actually,” Cliston explained.

“And a great butler you are. The most butlery butler that ever buttled,” Delovoa backtracked.

“You don’t need a butler. I’ve been eating floor wax since Cliston left me to my own limited devices two months ago.”

“I cooked for you two days ago, sir,” Cliston said.

“Seems like longer. You don’t even like food, Delovoa.”

“I do now!” Delovoa declared. “I’m thinking of adding two new stomachs and maybe another set of teeth. Hey, Cliston, what was that stuff you made last night? Crunchy yet delicate?”

“The crackers, sir?”

“Yeah. But they were good ones. Not the garbage I’ve been eating all my life,” Delovoa said wistfully.

“Don’t call him ‘sir,’” I told Cliston. “He’s a psychopath.”

“See? I would never tell you how to refer to others, Cliston,” Delovoa chided. “You don’t deserve someone trying to control your speech and behavior. Who does he think he is?”

“I’ll break your damn arms and shove them down your four stomachs,” I said, moving menacingly toward Delovoa.

But Cliston intervened, standing between us.

“Gentlemen, fisticuffs before dessert is unfitting,” Cliston said.

“You’re making dessert?” I asked.

“I noticed your approach and took the liberty of beginning preparations,” Cliston stated.

“What are you…preparing?” Delovoa asked.

“Candied brandy paired with a salted caramel, fruit seed ice cream, mint puff wafers, and a chocolate nut eclair,” Cliston said.

Delovoa and I stared at one another.

“It shall be served in the drawing room by the windows. There are two chairs that—” Cliston began.

But Delovoa and I began pushing and pulling at one another and trying to scramble to the location and get the best seat.

A few moments later, we were enjoying our post-dessert, digestif sweet liqueur, and a few additional entremets.

“What’s that?” Delovoa said, finally noticing Frank’s map I had carted across the city.

“It’s a map. Of what, I don’t know. I was hoping you could help,” I said.

Delovoa tried to pull it over with his foot, not wanting to get up out of the chair. Cliston saw this, lightly slapped the scientist’s knee, and picked up the object and handed it to Delovoa.

“Ow. It seems to be a map of space.”

“No crap. I was hoping you’d know more than that,” I said.

“Oh, right. Because I know how to unspin quarks, I’m also supposed to be an expert on geography? I’ve left this space station exactly as many times as you have. For all I know, the universe might be filled with lime-flavored gelatin once you pass those Portals,” he said.

I sighed.

Delovoa clicked around the map for a few minutes as I sipped my drink.

“This one is clearly Belvaille,” he said, after a moment.

“What is?”

“This,” he said, turning the map to face me. “This big sky city linking to all the Portals.”

“No, that’s a ski city,” I said.

“What’s a ski city?”

“I don’t know. Where people ski,” I suggested.

“It’s sky city. It’s Belvaille. You can tell by following the Portal links. Not sure why it’s labeled an antenna.”

“It’s not. It says ants. Like the bugs.”

Delovoa looked at me like I was an idiot. And as soon as I said it, I felt like one.

“It’s antenna. Where did you get this map?” he asked.

“Frank made it.”

“Really?” Delovoa scrutinized the map with greater intensity.

“Why would my uncle having anything to do with it,” I began, annoyed, “make you take it more seriously?”

“It would be a mistake to do otherwise. Your uncle was a serious guy,” he said. “I don’t think I ever once heard him make a joke or even smile.”

I had to agree with that.

“This map is hinting that the Portals connect to other galaxies!” Delovoa said. “Is there anything else that goes with this?”

“I don’t know. His apartment kind of blew up. There could be fifty maps in the rubble.”

“Ah, that reminds me. I need to show you something pretty important.”

“Delovoa important or real important?”

“Shut up.”

He stood waiting for me to follow him and I reluctantly did so.

We wound through his home and I had a growing sense that something had changed in his general living quarters, but couldn’t really put it into words. It wasn’t until we stepped into one of his large rooms he used for storing hi-tech gear that I recognized it.

“When did you get so organized, Delovoa?”

Everything was on shelves. There were labels. You could see the floor. Delovoa had, for as long as I had known him, lived kind of like a sewer rat. Except replace the rotten food, haphazard nesting materials, and dung with plasma capacitors, dangerous chemicals, and dung.

Delovoa stood with his mouth ajar.

“Cliston,” he called. “Did you rearrange this room?”

“I did, sir. Forgive me, but it was an eyesore and injurious to navigate,” Cliston said, appearing out of nowhere as always.

“Well how can I find anything?” Delovoa asked.

“What are you searching for? Perhaps I can assist you.”

“The junk I found by my smashed storage unit. The one Wallow broke.”

“Do you know any of the components in the aforementioned ‘junk’?”

“Of course, but you won’t.”

“Try him,” I advised.

“There was…like an encephalopathic harmonic discombobulator and…like a heptic fusion coaxial…and a bunch of other stuff,” Delovoa said, exasperated.

Cliston walked to a section of the wall and withdrew a cabinet.

“Would this be it, sir?”

Delovoa stared at it.

“Whoa, he even labeled it,” I said. “Enecpha-whatever. Harmonic disco-whatever.”

“How did you know what this was?” Delovoa asked. “I barely know what it is.”

“I taught a course some millennia ago on Obscure Technical Jargon and took my best guess,” he replied. “Would you be needing anything else?”

“No, Cliston. Thanks,” Delovoa said.

“You have any more cookies?” I asked.

“You should wait another twenty-three minutes to allow for previous digestion and levelling of baseline biochemistry and gastric resurgence. I will provide refreshments at that point,” he said.

“Thanks, Cliston,” I said.

Delovoa was still in shock, holding the complicated equipment. Whatever it was, it looked to my untrained eyes as if it had been destroyed.

“So, what’s the important thing?” I prompted.

“Oh. Right. This. You mentioned searching through the wreckage to hopefully find anything I could give to the Navy which would return my status to the most esteemed galactic scientist.”

“I’m sure I didn’t use those words,” I said.

“Anyway, I found this.”

“Alright. I’m not Cliston and I didn’t take a class in Useless Crap. So what is it?”

“I believe it was used to wake up Wallow,” he said.

“What?” I asked, alarmed.

“Yeah. A Therezian didn’t slumber pleasantly for centuries and suddenly spring to life and go on a rampage. I think he was not only woken up on purpose, but this, and maybe some other equipment, was used to control him.”

“Holy crap. Someone was driving Wallow? Like a toy?”

“I wouldn’t say like a toy—unless you grew up playing with weapons of mass destruction. But yes. This had likely been inside his ear. Wallow might have dislodged it, along with any other equipment that had been utilized.”

“You know,” I said, remembering. “I saw Wallow kind of clawing at himself. At his head and maybe his ears. I thought it was just…you know, ’cuz he was Wallow and he had been jackhammered and chainsawed and had trash dumped on him for years and years. Why would anyone want to wake up Wallow? It’s suicide.”

“They might not have expected him to destroy this controlling apparatus so quickly. Having a remote control Therezian would make you unbelievably powerful,” he said.

I thought about that.

“I don’t know. Is this like, simple gear? Something you could get at a hardware store?”

“Don’t be stupid. Of course not. It’s so cutting edge, it could slice us in half just looking at it. I’m a master of genetics and biology and I don’t quite understand the principles behind it,” Delovoa said.

“So whoever made it, could make some big bombs, right?” I asked.

“Maybe not bombs. But they have incredibly advanced technical skills.”

“Right. And nerds like that probably also have access to history books. Or at least a little common sense. A Therezian isn’t an easy tool. Or easy weapon. Thad Elon used them, but he more or less cut them loose. Not even he could actually control them to any great extent. By the way, Thad Elon is here.”

“Here where?” Delovoa asked.

“On Belvaille. I saw him right before the telescopes were destroyed.”

“Why didn’t you say anything earlier?” Delovoa screamed.

“I was eating.”

“I don’t mean tonight. The telescopes were destroyed days ago. You weren’t eating every second of that time.”

“Just about. But I was busy running for my life. Why didn’t you tell me that Wallow had been intentionally woken up and turned into a slave?” I asked.

“Because I was running for my life from the Navy,” he said.

“No, you weren’t. They gave you a hundred-million-credit contract.”

“Right. And they also made it clear, the way that only soldiers can, that I had better get the Portals repaired quickly. I’ve been working nonstop. I gave them four devices to install and I’m extremely anxious about the results,” he said.

“What do the inventions do?” I asked.

“Nothing! That’s why I’m anxious.”

“You gave fake Portal gear to the Navy? Are you mad?” I asked redundantly of the mad scientist.

“It will take them a while to get out there and install it. Then I’ll say they dropped it. Or mishandled it. Or something. I’ll throw a fit about the frustrations of wasted brilliance. That should buy me three or so weeks,” he replied.

I stood blinking at Delovoa.

“Alright. So. What do we got?” I asked, after a moment. “We know Thad Elon is here. He might be part of the Cartel.”

“What’s the Cartel?”

“It’s like this huge group of…I’m not really sure. A bunch of guys who might be criminals and might be government and might be fashion designers.”

“You’re the least reliable source for information,” Delovoa muttered.

“Do you think maybe Thad Elon blew up your stuff in the Portals?” I asked.

“No. Why would he?”

“I don’t know. I don’t even know what you had out there,” I said.

“I like to dabble in narcissism, egotism, and a dash of delusion. But not even in my most grandiose moments would I think that Thad Elon knows anything about me or my inventions. The last few things I built were some shotgun shells for a fat mutant, and some broken stereo equipment I told the Navy could accelerate hypertravel,” he said.

“Yeah. I guess that’s not really Thad-Elon-caliber hardware.”

“What did he say to you?” he asked.

“Why do people think I sit around chatting with the creator and corruptor of civilization?”

“Because you have in the past.”

“Not on purpose. Not by choice,” I said.

“What about this Cartel? They seem to be important.”

“They might be. I don’t know. They might have killed Frank. They shot at me at his place when I got that map.”

“So the map could be the key to all this?” Delovoa asked.

“Maybe. But so could that elephanto-device. Or the blowed-up telescopes, the army of Boranjame living in the basement, or the noisy hookers I have for neighbors,” I said.

“Huh?”

“I don’t know, Delovoa. There’s too much going on for me to figure out. And when that happens, usually stuff goes really sideways. Let’s get some cookies.”

Delovoa sighed, but he nodded in agreement. I put my hand on his shoulder to stop him.

“I know we joke around a lot. But we’ve known each other a long time and I respect your abilities,” I said.

“And I respect your significant gravitational mass,” he replied.

“But in all seriousness, I will murder you without hesitation if you try and steal Cliston from me.”





CHAPTER 15


Gods Amongst Us



Delovoa kept Frank’s map to look over. I wish I had more copies of it, but it was such a clunky, old design, that the data wasn’t easy to offload. I’d have to take a thousand pictures with my tele and I was too lazy for that.

Delovoa said he was extremely interested in the hint that the Portals could lead to other galaxies. He had seen similar clues of such a concept when he personally worked on the Portals, but we didn’t have the capability to use it—or conclusively know to try.

Navigating the Portals still required specialized gear. You didn’t just throw a rock at the Portals and it ended up twenty lightyears away. It was an involved process with a lot of science behind it.

Which was why we were now facing pan-galactic traffic congestion.

My guess was that Delovoa didn’t especially care about other galaxies from an altruistic standpoint or even for the sake of scientific curiosity. He was searching for anything he could give the Navy so they wouldn’t string him up by his bulbous skull for not only snarling traffic, but for giving them bogus corrections to that problem.

Showing we had access to other galaxies was something a governmental Navy would be very interested in. The Colmarian Confederation could then spread, and bring the glory of bloated, inefficient bureaucracy to every corner of the universe.



My safehouse apartment had gone from bad to horrible.

Word of mouth—or hips, or groin, or sphincter—had spread the news that Mister Fispin had relocated her brothel. There followed a distinct surge in business.

I was within spitting distance of a nonstop alien whorehouse.

The sounds, smells, vibrations, and electromagnetic pulses emanating from the adjacent rooms were enough to keep me awake at night and nearly spoil my appetite. But it was still not safe enough to scout for a safer safehouse or return home to my warehouse-house.

As I had predicted, however, the Navy lockdown was slowly starting to ebb in its intensity. The righteous vengeance that had motivated them after the destruction of the telescopes was burning itself out.

I think the big realization was that they didn’t have prison space to store all the criminals on Belvaille. Because under normal circumstances, the entire city of Belvaille was the prison.

It was not cheap or easy to ferry thousands of prisoners off the space station to be incarcerated in brigs on the surrounding spaceships. And the captains of those ships did not appreciate being relegated to prison wardens. And it’s not as if they were locking up hostile pirates or enemy military. These were low-end blackmailers and counterfeiters whose greatest danger to society was their poor hygiene—though that danger shouldn’t be underestimated.

The ship jails provided nutritious meals, exercise, health care, and general socializing with other members of Belvaille society. It was, essentially, a resort vacation for many of the inhabitants. Their standard of living was increased along with their security and comradery. So the imprisoned lowlifes had nothing better to do than cook up new schemes and plots and alliances.

The Navy brigs became accidental think tanks for Belvaille criminality.

Another side effect of the Navy shutting down all the brothels was: The Navy shut down all the brothels.

And while the career soldiers had few problems steering clear of the gambling, drugs, and stolen merchandise rackets on Belvaille, sailors had been sailors for more millennia than anyone could possibly count.

As a consequence, the neighborhood around Mister Fispin’s, which was also around me, became absolutely awash with sailors. They weren’t toting guns and arresting people, they were waiting in line to use my safehouse.

A safehouse, I hasten to point out, whose sole purpose was for me to avoid the Navy.

I couldn’t figure out if this made me less safe or more safe. The off-duty and shore-leaved soldiers weren’t especially raucous or resolute. They were an orderly bunch, used to the confined living conditions and cooperative environment of military spaceships.

However, there were a whole bunch of them. And I was still, as far as I knew, a semi-wanted man for my tenuous involvement with the telescope erasure.

As I was weighing my options, Mister Fispin, looking haggard and harried, entered my rooms and gave me my first week’s cut from her operations. We had agreed on a 5% fee for the sharing of the safehouse.

But first, a few notes on the practices of criminal accounting.

Percentages are used by crooks all the time when divvying up businesses, territories, and otherwise making agreements. Unless it was a one-off deal with a cash or property payment, there was usually some percentage involved.

Criminals loved percentages to an absurd degree. I had been in negotiations where parties debated for weeks over hundredths of a percent. And it was very common to come to a settlement that was expressed in tenths of a percent. Like 16.3% share of a money laundering operation. I hated participating in these kinds of deals because they were absolutely ridiculous.

Never in the history of crime and criminals the universe over has anyone ever given the proper payment as stipulated.

Not only because criminals, as a species, sucked at math, they also had nonexistent bookkeeping, records, and receipts. And, of course, the percentages were never met exactly because everyone involved was also…a criminal.

An honest criminal was an oxymoron.

So when I agreed to 5% from Mister Fispin’s brothel, I had no way of knowing if she was going to honor that, and she had no way of calculating it.

The percentages, therefore, were simply a goof. The paying party gave as much or as little as they were comfortable with, and they estimated whether the receiving party would be offended—and what they would do about it.

I had attempted to negotiate deals that said as much. You know, give what you can and don’t piss them off. But that wording upset everyone involved so we went back to silly percentages.

But the bottom line was trust and threats—and there was a very fine line between the two. You could negotiate 99.99% of a take, but if you had no way to back it up, then no crook was going to hand you even 1%. There had to be some downside for them screwing you over or they would screw you over.

Because, you know, that’s the definition of criminal criminals acting criminally.

So I was a bit anxious when Mister Fispin handed me an envelope of credits and promptly left. If I wanted to threaten her operations, I would have to shove my way past a hundred horny soldiers first.

Inside the envelope, I found 83,267 credits. That was my cut for one week.

I decided immediately that I wanted to be a pimp when I grew up.

Or brothellier. Or whatever you called it. I hurried over to ask Mister Fispin if she needed any heavy objects moved or wanted me to pick up some groceries or supplies or even mop the floors. But she was far too busy to speak with me.



I needed a walk.

Just some fresh air, free from alien intercourse and the militant stench of Navy sailors—any of whom might identify me as a wanted felon if they stopped fantasizing for a moment.

I took a long, long journey north. Almost five blocks. I was tired, hungry, and depressed. Those states of being more or less fed off each other. So maybe I was mostly tired, and that made me depressed. Or maybe I was really hungry, which caused me to be tired. Just thinking about it made me confused. So now I was tired, hungry, depressed, confused, and I suppose reflective, since I was contemplating all this.

In any case, I felt lousy.

I sat on an empty street corner, eating some hash browns someone had left in a container after missing the trash can. They weren’t bad and it must have been a double order because there were a lot here. As I was enjoying my meal, I saw a disturbing figure scuttle past.

The Colmarian Confederation had all sorts of species in it. But no matter how oddball they were, we still had a type. The general configuration had to possess some way to speak, some way to see, an ability to shake your hand, and pay for goods and services. The aliens that were so alien we couldn’t actually deal with them, couldn’t be Colmarians.

A simple rule of thumb might be, if we invited them to join the Colmarian Confederation and we didn’t realize we were actually speaking to their sofa, then they probably weren’t good candidates.

The figure that moved past me was a true alien. I had seen its kind before and knew it almost always to be a harbinger of badness.

Composed of hundreds of tentacle-like limbs that ended in gripping hands, the creature was called a Po. It was about four or five feet in…diameter? It was hard to define, having no top, bottom, head, torso, or much of anything. It seemed to be only arms and hands. This one was colored light blue.

It moved by flipping and spinning and propelling itself. And while it sounded ungraceful, I knew from experience the creatures were not only incredibly nimble, but fast, and strong.

In every past encounter, the Po had been the personal servants—slaves—of the Boranjame. Though Delovoa had a Po butler for a very brief period.

Against my better judgement, I got up and attempted to follow the Po.

Po were capable of vast speeds and I was merely vast. So the idea I was going to hoof it after this creature was more than far-fetched. But if there were Po around here, it stood to reason there were also Boranjame. And that was information worth knowing, even if the pursuit of that knowledge caused me to break out in a sweat and forced me to drop my hash browns.

The chase entailed hopping over fences, climbing up and down fire escapes, jumping over parked—and moving—cars, and dashing between pedestrians. Obviously, I wasn’t actually doing any of that stuff myself, but I was following something who was. For my part, I mostly chugged along in straight lines.

I lost sight of the Po a half dozen times only to have it appear when I was about to give up and go scrounging for more dumpster food.

It was beginning to feel like the Po wanted me to follow it. But it didn’t want it so much it actually slowed down or made it easy. It was conflicted in its feelings about my pursuit. Perhaps it wanted me to lose weight and assumed cardiac arrest was the most efficient method of achieving that.

About forty-five minutes of this nonsense and I was spent. Just spent. If someone lit my pants on fire and put a bucket of ice-cold beer twenty feet away, I’d just stand here and let my butt caramelize.

And just to prove I was a big, fat liar, I saw the Po go into the building across the street from me. It flung open the door, cartwheeled inside, and spared a few arms to gently close the door behind it.

I sighed and shuffled over to the building.

I paused at the door, mentally preparing myself for what I might encounter—not to mention give myself a chance to catch my breath. As I was breath-catching, I was almost run over by two more Po entering the building and one exiting.

Inside, the lobby of the large office building was filled with Po. So it hadn’t been one Po egging me along, I’d witnessed dozens coming and going. I must have been inadvertently resting along some Po superhighway.

I entered the building gingerly as the undulating mass of tentacles seemed to ignore me. Or, who knows, maybe they were staring at me. Or cussing me out. Or trying to sell me hash browns. They had no mouth or eyes or anything, so it was tough to say.

“Hey,” I began. But then I realized I didn’t have anything else to add.

The Po flopped around. I felt a few dozen arms tug at me. It wasn’t forceful, but they were trying to get me to move forward.

“Hold on, hold on. I’m tired and hungry. You made me drop my lunch. What time is it, anyway?” I asked, trying to make conversation with creatures that had no ears.

Sensing my hunger, or perhaps feeling the vibrations from my grumbling stomach, the slave species Po handed me a bowl of soup.

“Oh,” I said, startled. “Thanks. Is it…noodles? You got any hash browns?”

I sniffed at the soup. This was not typically a polite thing to do. But with so many species in the empire, usually some brief exchange of biological information was in order before sharing a meal. It was more than possible that one race’s delicious food was another race’s poison.

But the Po were not members of the Colmarian Confederation. I don’t even think they were members of the Boranjame empire. They were slaves. So it was understandable they didn’t know the proper etiquette for exchanging pleasantries and edibles.

I didn’t want to be rude to an office building filled with arms. And I was indeed very hungry. So I took a big swig of the soup and hoped for the best.

I was immediately assaulted by at least a zillion hands.

Every square inch of my body was gripped and pulled in different directions. They had me by my ankles and were yanking my nostrils!

I struggled to close my arms, which were being stretched wide, and reach my shotgun in my coat. If they had been pulling in the same directions, I felt certain they could have just about ripped me in half. But they weren’t coordinated and were therefore working at cross purposes.

My panic escalated to absolute fear when they forced open my mouth and I felt two or three hands reaching inside of me!

That adrenaline boost allowed me to get hold of my double-barrel shotgun, draw it, and shoot. I wasn’t aiming anywhere because I couldn’t see anything. My eyes were covered and slanted from the hands all over my face.

Whoosh. The Po all jumped back, and a perfect tunnel formed where my gun had fired. I had not blasted them clear. They had morphed and bent and dodged my shot in its path clear across the room.

And just as quickly, they were back on me.

But the split-second reprieve allowed me to start moving. And once I had momentum, I was hard to stop.

I stomped and twisted trying to get them off me and reach the exit.

I fired again, this time, in the general direction of the ceiling. Not on purpose, that’s how my arm was constricted by my adversaries.

They flew away again, giving me a view of the room, and the door to freedom. I turned and took another step before they were all over me, seemingly trying to pull my skin from my body.

I was not far from the door, but I wasn’t making much progress. And my mind declared that the door was not some magical escape. The Po weren’t going to simply evaporate outside. If anything, they’d have greater freedom and room to dodge my clumsy shots.

I was running out of ideas and very frightened.

There were reasons why soldiers, police, and terrorists trained and trained. It wasn’t just because muscle memory and instinct were faster than analytical thinking. It was also because when faced with death, most people—no matter how brilliant they were under normal circumstances—transformed into idiots.

Adrenaline could make you faster and stronger, but it sure as hell didn’t make you smarter. No chess grandmasters prepared for a game by wrestling with man-eating predators. If they survived, mentally and emotionally they would still be devastated.

My age and career had given me all sorts of training. The hard-won training of experience. But the number of times I had been attacked by a swimming pool of aggressive spaghetti was just about zero.

So it came as a surprise to everyone involved that I suddenly got the idea to jump forward and roll.

Roll on the ground. Like I was trying to smother a flame by imitating a boulder.

If you had asked me what I would do in this situation last week, I would have never come up with that. So how it came into my head now was a mystery.

But it worked!

The Po were incredibly flexible but they weren’t willing to have me land on them or roll over them. It wasn’t much of a roll, just a few revolutions, but it cleared a path to the door and prevented them from grabbing hold as I did so.

I got to my feet quicker than I would have thought possible and I was out on the street.

I then felt a tingling in my groin and lower abdomen that became an itch before I could even look down. My first thought was that I had caught some crazy venereal disease living next to an alien brothel. But the sensation quickly enveloped my entire body and everything went blue.

Just as quickly, the feeling went away and in front of me wasn’t the street. I was in a large, two-story atrium, that was occupied by a Boranjame.

No two Boranjame I’d ever seen had been alike. Not like how some people have big noses and some people have six glowing eyes. The Boranjame were all…really different.

But there was no mistaking what they were. No one looked at a Boranjame and thought maybe it was a fish or an oven or a fish in an oven.

The one in front of me now looked to be a quartz crystal, roughly shaped like an oval. It was about fifteen feet tall, fifteen feet deep, and ten feet wide. It floated about five feet above the ground. And at every…vertex, the crystal undulated. Like waves. This enormous crystal was fluttering in every direction at once. Yet at no point did any of those waves crash or interfere with each other. It was an impossible feat of geometry, geography, and probably a hundred other subjects I never studied and would have failed if I tried.

“It was my understanding that you were deceased,” the Boranjame said.

It spoke via large speakers at the sides of the room.

“Um,” I began uneasily. “That’s a common misconception. I’m just really slow.”

“I see.”

“Why did you have your Po attack me?” I asked.

“I did not. You consumed several of their children,” it replied.

I was about to disagree when I remembered the soup they had given me. I guess they had been trying to show off their family. It never occurred to me that Po had kids, kept them in bowls, and handed them to strangers whose stomachs were rumbling.

“Oh,” I said. “I didn’t mean to. Did you like, teleport me here? Am I on your spaceship? Where am I?”

“I have returned you to the building you recently vacated. It is merely a different room.”

“Oh,” I repeated. “So I know Gax. Sorry, The Marquor of Lunacy, Gax, the Unfathomable and Disreputable.”

“The First and Last have arrived,” the Boranjame said, using Thad Elon’s official title.

“Yeah, I saw him. Are you going to fight him or something?” I asked.

“No. It has already won,” it said.

“What do you mean? Like the telescopes? Was that him? Or something else? What do you think I should do?”

“I would advise you to follow my example and flee. But I am afraid it is too late for you,” it said.

Then the Boranjame suddenly stopped rippling and began to glow. Yellows, reds, blues, every color began to shoot forth until I had to shield my eyes. There followed a whooshing sound as a large, crystalline alien vanished.

The air sucked in to fill the empty space, pulling me with it. Boxes, equipment, speakers, and anything loose, landed on and around me.

I sat in the pile of junk wondering what the hell just happened.

And then the door behind me opened and numerous Po entered.

They were wondering what happened to their master. And why was a cannibal sitting here and did I eat the Boranjame as well?

“Crap,” I said.





CHAPTER 16


The Plan



“How long did you manage to stay out of the hospital, Hank? Two days?” Garm asked, standing next to my bed.

“It was like two months,” I objected.

“It wasn’t two months. The hospital would go out of business if you were healthy that long. We’d have to set up charities and soup kitchens for all our doctors.”

“Funny stuff.”

“What did you do this time?” she asked.

“Nothing. It was just a misunderstanding between me and some Po. Which, honestly, is easy to happen since I can’t understand them and they can’t understand me.”

“I heard you ate their kids.”

“How did you hear that? Who could have told you? It’s not true. And it was an accident.”

“Only you could accidentally eat alien children,” she said. “I wanted to see if you’d tell me the truth and of course you didn’t.”

“There’s versions of truth. But don’t you want to hear about the Boranjame?” I asked, changing the subject.

She sat down on the edge of my bed, which meant she was serious. Her sitting down or standing still meant she was concerned.

“You spoke to the Boranjame?” she asked breathlessly.

“It was just one. And we didn’t say a whole lot.”

“Do I need to beat it out of you? Or do you only accept bribes of alien fetuses?”

“Gross. And don’t go spreading that. Everyone thinks I’m bad enough already. I didn’t get his name. But the Boranjame confirmed Thad Elon was here. He further said we should run because Thad Elon had won. And then poof. He left.”

“Left? Left how? He took a cab? Started hitchhiking? You’re a terrible reporter.”

“I’m in the hospital! Give me a break. My body got pulled in so many directions I’m lucky anything still fits together. He like, teleported. After he teleported me. And he said he won.”

“Who won? The Boranjame? Or Thad Elon? Or the Po children you ate, who would never have to listen to you muddle through galaxy-threatening information?” she asked.

“He said Thad Elon had won. And said he was running, the Boranjame, and we should too. Or something like that.”

“Are you making this up right now? When a Boranjame talks to you, you should remember every word in the proper sequence. They can see the future. They aren’t the kind of people you paraphrase!” Garm said angrily.

“I’m sorry I forgot my legal pad and…uh, you know, the thing,” I said, waving my hand.

“A pen? Are you talking about a pen? How and why do the Boranjame talk to you? They pass on the fate of our civilization to someone who doesn’t know what a writing utensil is. And eats babies.”

“Stop it. When was the last time you used a pen—other than to scribble on bathroom walls? And it was really a short conversation. And when it was over, the Po got mad I guess because they thought I killed their boss. You’d think they would be happy, considering they’re slaves.”

“No, unlike you, they might have memories that span greater than thirty seconds. And they might have still held a grudge about what you did to their families.” Garm sighed and cooled down. “So he specifically said that Thad Elon had beaten them?”

“No,” I said, trying to remember. “He said Thad Elon won. And I was like, what did he win? The lottery? But he didn’t elaborate. He also said we should flee but it was too late.”

“Too late? I can run pretty fast,” she said.

“Not as fast as a teleport.”

“Do you know where he went?” she asked.

“He left no forwarding address. I assume super far away.”

“And why do you assume that? What Hank wisdom gives you expertise on demigod teleportation from space stations?” she asked.

“Because if he was just popping down the street to get a taco, he could have sent the Po. And he wouldn’t have said flee. When a Boranjame says flee, do you really think he’s talking about the current room in the current building? ‘Flee for your life—you’ll be totally fine next door.’”

“This is bad news. You’re always bad news,” she said.

“I didn’t invent Boranjame. Or Thad Elon. It has nothing to do with me. At least not by choice. He said I should have been dead.”

“Who said that?” Garm asked, confused.

“Who are we talking about? The Po obviously didn’t say it. And Belvaille didn’t come alive and start talking to me.”

“Are you sure? You keep forgetting salient details in your meeting with a doom-prophesizing immortal.”

“The first thing the Boranjame said to me was he thought I was dead,” I replied.

“In what context? After you chewed up his servants? After you wrestled a Therezian? There’s so many things that should have killed you.”

“I don’t know. They don’t have a lot of inflection when then talk and he wasn’t jumping up and down pointing or smirking because he’s a giant, rippling crystal. He was kind of…surprised, I guess.”

“I am too. I don’t know how anyone as unobservant, uncurious, and lacking in self-preservation instincts has managed to survive so long. What are you going to do now?” she asked.

“I’m going to finish recovering from my Po attack. Then I’m going to do what the Boranjame said and flee. Or maybe I’ll flee first and then recover.”

“Where’re you going to go? Unless you can teleport, you’re stuck here with the rest of us. If Thad Elon is the problem, maybe we should work on him.”

“A Boranjame is running away from Thad Elon. The guy who teleported me. The guy who’s the size of a house and managed to sneak into Belvaille without anyone detecting him. And whose slave servants put me in the hospital. If he’s hiding, maybe we should follow his example,” I said.

“If you can get Delovoa to upgrade all the Portals, like, tonight, then maybe we can run. I know he’s begun installing his contraptions, but I’m not sure of his progress.”

“I wouldn’t count on Delovoa building much of value,” I said.

“Then you can lie here eating hospital food and wait for Thad Elon to do whatever it is he’s up to, or you can get off your lazy ass and try and stop him.”

“We’ve never beaten Thad Elon. He always maneuvers past us,” I complained.

“Yeah. So maybe we don’t try and outsmart a billion-year-old guy. Don’t wait for him or try and figure out his plans, go at him fast, with overwhelming force. The point is to stop or disrupt whatever he’s doing. We can go to jail for it later.”

“And die later, when it’s more convenient,” I said.

“Now that’s the Hank spirit—and logic. I know it sounds insane to attack an actual immortal who can’t be physically injured. But Thad Elon is here. And you know he’s doing something. And that something is bad. Almost certainly worse than what we imagine—and I’m capable of imagining really horrible things. Already we’ve had priceless telescopes destroyed, intergalactic traffic halted, and the most powerful beings in existence warn us to run for our lives. And Thad Elon is still here, scheming. If we all die in an assault on him, is that better or worse than what he’s likely planning?” she asked.

“If we’re going to do this,” I began, “We need everyone. Every favor. Every group. It can’t be half-assed because we won’t get another chance.”

“We need to move quick. He’s got epochs of a head start on us. We need to hurl everything we got and hope he didn’t plan for it all,” she said.

“Relying on guesses and hopes when fighting Thad Elon seems like suicide.”

“But at least it’s of our choosing and making. I don’t know about you, but I don’t want to wait for Thad Elon to kill me at his leisure. I know you’re still recovering, but we got to move.”

“I can make calls from bed. We’re still going to need some days to gather forces or we won’t be able to get near him.”

“Yeah,” she said. “Alright. How are we going to sell this? We can’t tell any old person they’re about to go fight Thad Elon.”

“Everyone on this station hates somebody. Getting people to take up arms and be bloodthirsty isn’t the problem. Getting them to cooperate with other people shooting is the trick.”

“He’s got a Cartel army. I can probably spin that to motivate the Navy,” she said.

“And we can promise all sorts of financial rewards to the gangs because we’ll probably all die anyway—and so we’ll never have to pay out,” I said.



The principals reconvened in my hospital room two days later. I was feeling good, but not great.

“I got 250 gang members, ready. That was my cut-off point. I had far more people offer their services, but I think that might be too hard to manage as it is. We did the math, and that’s fifteen guys, standing shoulder-to-shoulder, and five deep,” Podiver Vance said.

“A bunch of gang members who hate each other aren’t going to stand in perfect formation,” MTB scoffed.

“No, and we don’t want them to. They need to be able to shoot. That’s the whole point,” Garm said.

“Oh, they’ll shoot. Though no one has standardized guns. Some don’t even have any,” Podiver said.

“Delovoa, can you provide weapons?” I asked.

“I don’t personally own a manufacturing facility. I make custom guns. I don’t outfit armies,” Delovoa said.

“Maybe you can pick and choose your 250 from those who already have proper equipment,” Garm suggested.

“Forgive me, but I put heavier emphasis on those who are stable and sane and willing to do this instead of whether or not they owned a rifle of a particular caliber,” Podiver replied.

“He’s right. MTB, can you lend some guns? Garm, you must have access to some Navy weapons,” I said.

“We confiscate all sorts of weapons. But they aren’t very good,” MTB replied.

“Navy guns are complicated. And the armory at the dock is off-limits to everyone below fleet command,” she said.

“Then how are you equipping your personnel?” Podiver asked.

“My team is pulled from the residual troops at the telescopes,” she said. “They already have equipment and nothing to do now that the telescopes are essentially gone.”

“How is this gang battalion going to be organized?” MTB asked.

“I don’t think it will be,” Podiver replied.

“You want people with long rifles on the left, so they can shoot down the face of all three buildings,” MTB suggested.

“I can’t arrange them by guns. They’re not soldiers. They will be grouped with their friends and their crews,” Podiver explained.

Podiver Vance had been my first choice as liaison with the underworld element. He worked buying and selling merchandise, which meant he was on friendly terms with a whole lot of people. While he had little combat experience or expertise dealing with thugs who had combat experience, those people tended to have a lot of baggage.

Like if I pulled in a gang boss who ran collections, he might have access to 60 guys ready to fight right now. But we needed a lot more than that. And by the time we got 250, they’d all be battling each other out on the street, instead of shooting at the Cartel.

I could have tried to recruit people myself. But a lot of criminals didn’t trust me for a lot of reasons. And I was busy doing other things.

“It’s looking nice. Great job, Podiver,” I said. “Garm, you’re next.”

“Right. Like I said, I only have limited access to the now-defunct telescope forces,” she began.

“Every time I drove by, they sure looked impressive,” Podiver hinted.

“So then let me finish. I’ve got two heavy weapons squads. One operates a .50 caliber rotary gun that can fire about 5,000 rounds a minute. If it didn’t overheat itself into molten slag and they somehow had infinite ammo, they could take out all three of those buildings themselves. The other crew is operating a hundred-millimeter automatic mortar. They’ve assured me they can hit anywhere on the buildings above the second floor. And the last thing I’m bringing is a tank,” she said.

“What kind of tank?” MTB asked.

“The real kind. It’s going to take up most of that other street, with the heavy weapon teams flanking each side. It’s got some maintenance issues—but those things always do. Unless we take this fight to the desert, need to drive a few hundred miles, or get attacked by a swarm of locusts, it will be fine. But it has no coaxial guns,” she said.

“What’s that mean?” Podiver asked.

“It means it can’t really do much to people on foot except run them over,” she said.

“You can’t run them over. You need to keep it there and cut off that side street,” MTB said.

“I was joking. It’s not going to be driving around in front of 250 armed gang members. People—on both sides—might get some bad notions in their heads,” she said.

“No. Everyone has to stay where they are: gangs on one street, military perpendicular on the next street. That brings us to you, MTB,” I said.

“We police got three jobs,” he began. “We’re going to block off these buildings on the opposite side so they can’t escape through the rear doors. Each has one main exit on that street. We can use my car, and two trucks that Podiver is lending us.”

“Make sure they’re loaded or they can just shoot through the cabs and exit,” Delovoa said.

“They’re going to be filled with as much concrete as they can hold,” Podiver replied.

“Where’d you get concrete on Belvaille?” I asked. Concrete was a heavy product of scant value and large size, even pre-mixed, so it very rarely made an appearance on a space station.

“It was a three-block swimming pool that never got built,” Podiver said.

“I remember that. What ever happened to that guy?” Garm said.

“Don’t know. His buyers kept falling through and so he left. Something like 50,000 pounds of concrete tiles and slabs are still here and we can’t find anyone to take them away,” Podiver said.

“And while everyone else is focusing on these three main buildings on this side, we know that there are about twenty Cartel across the street in this other building. So we’re going to go up and neutralize them,” MTB continued.

“What’s the third thing?” I asked.

“Garm has logistics people who deal with the tank and we’re providing them a handful of guards,” MTB explained.

“How many is a handful?” Garm asked, annoyed.

“As many as I can spare. You know how things are on Belvaille: an hour before we get together, I’m going to find out some people are sick with an alien flu and projectile vomiting glowing slime, some people are going to be kidnapped, and some people are going to be murdered by their ex-girlfriends,” MTB said.

“She’s got a tank and a machine gun that fires a trillion rounds a second and she needs more protection?” Podiver asked.

“Those things are good at shooting at buildings and brigades. But if a handful of guys with pistols walk up behind them, they aren’t especially well-equipped to handle them,” MTB said.

“I also confirmed that Cliston and his Advanced Sauces Class III are going to be providing meals,” I said, trying to break up the growing tension in the room.

Everyone applauded.

“I have to say, that was a major recruitment aspect,” Podiver stated.

“Why? I get that Cliston has awesome food, but are people really willing to die for it?” I asked.

“It’s not that. Cliston catering meant this operation was…legitimate. Yeah, the Navy is there. MTB is there. All these gangs are participating,” Podiver began.

“I’m paying those lowlifes,” Garm snapped.

“Yes. And that has baggage too. The Adjunct Overwatch is funding gangs to shoot up some buildings? That gets people suspicious. But everyone knows Cliston. He’s not going to be involved in anything unseemly or sneaky,” Podiver said.

“I assume they’d set up behind my guys,” MTB said.

“No. There’s way more of my people than a couple of jerks cowering behind a tank,” Podiver said.

“If he serves to you all, there won’t be any left for us. I know how that is,” MTB said. “And we sure as hell aren’t going to come over for scraps behind half a million armed gang members.”

“Guys, I’ll talk to Cliston,” I said. “I’m pretty sure they aren’t going to be putting up food tents close to an enormous firefight—tank shells and mortars flying everywhere while they try and hand out pastry. He’ll figure it out and get you guys organized proper. Anything else?”

“Yeah. We have a lot of firepower, but these are big buildings. Even if that tank and mortar open up and spend all their ammo at once, like 75% of those buildings will be completely untouched. And no amount of small arms fire from gangs, five deep, or ten deep, or seventy across, is going to penetrate past the first rooms facing the street,” Garm said.

“Exactly. We can shoot, but if they don’t shoot back, or file out, or otherwise make nice, helpful targets, we aren’t going to be doing much. And then we’re going to have to breech those buildings and fight room-to-room,” MTB said. “And there are potentially thousands of Cartel in there.”

“Delovoa,” I called.

“My time to sparkle,” the scientist declared. “I have many, many options available. I can destroy as little as one-eighth of the city or as much as eleven-tenths.”

“We don’t want or need the city destroyed,” Garm said, rolling her eyes.

“Poo. I’ve got some cluster munitions—though as I recall they’re mostly loaded with poison gas. I’ve got several cruise missiles—they’ll have a tough time getting up to speed. I’d have to set them up by the port and you all would have to guide them across the city. But they should be able to take out a few blocks each. Also, if anyone is able to haul them up on the latticework, I have some nice bombs that could be dropped. We can deal with the radiation later if it proves bothersome,” he said.

“Why is it you have all these tremendously destructive weapons, but you can’t provide us some rifles?” Podiver Vance asked.

“I attribute it to the Delovoa Theory of Scientific Discovery,” he replied.

Everyone looked at the floor, ceiling, the map that was currently laid out in front of us, anything except Delovoa.

“And since no one will ask me what that theory is, I’ll tell you: The compelling value of an invention correlates to how much it explodes,” Delovoa said.

“You can’t kill us. And you can’t blow up those buildings without killing us,” Garm stated.

“Poo. So you don’t want my help?” Delovoa asked.

“Don’t be a prick, Delovoa,” I said.

“Fine. I’ll scrounge around for some un-compelling things,” he said.

“That still doesn’t cover the other side of the street across from Podiver’s gangs,” MTB said. “If they pour out of those buildings and just…run away, we can’t do anything.”

“We can shoot them,” Podiver said.

“Yeah, but realistically, we’re not going to stop them all. We’re not really trying to cripple the Cartel, we’re trying to capture Thad Elon,” MTB said.

Everyone looked at me.

“We got 250 guys wantonly shooting this direction, and we need someone or something to stand in front of them, up the block, and tackle anyone who tries to escape. I’m working on a solution,” I said.

“You need to be doing more than working on it,” Garm said. “We got all the other sides covered.”

“Yeah, but the other sides aren’t being shot at by their own team,” I countered.

“I don’t think anyone is going to be shooting at you,” Podiver said. “They’ll be shooting at the buildings.”

“Just ricochets and misses will be sizeable,” MTB said. “Anything up that street is going to take a beating. Even ten blocks away, and that would be too far to catch anyone. I wouldn’t stand there.”

“But you’re not a bulletproof mutant, MTB,” Garm said.

“I’m bullet resistant,” I countered. “If an army shoots me, there’s no more me. I said I’m working on it. I will figure it out if I have to drag over a mile of fencing myself.”

We were all quiet for some moments, thinking about this situation.

“You know, we’re breaking a lot of laws. And we’re doing so using Navy gear right after they sort of imposed martial law. If this works—and even if it doesn’t—we’ll probably be locked up for so long we’ll never see daylight again,” MTB said.

“We live on a space station. We don’t see daylight anyway,” I replied.

“Everyone in this room has dealt with Thad Elon before or seen what he can do,” Garm said. “We know what’s at stake with this fight. And getting fined, or even imprisoned, by the Navy is probably the very best outcome we can wish for.”



Things were moving rapidly but not fast enough.

I was up and about and mended nicely from my encounter with the angry Po. I used some of my time to review Frank’s map some more.

It was clear to me that the map hadn’t been started under Garm’s direction. She had hired Frank to check out what the Boranjame were up to about six months before he was killed. But there were way too many entries and dates for that short period of time.

Unfortunately, the map was not easy to use unless you knew what you were looking for. But since I had a bit of time, I went looking. It was painfully hard deciphering Frank’s personal shorthand that was sprinkled with typos.

There were entries all over the place for Boranjame. Dozens of the stellar gods. What was most intriguing was that it seemed like Frank had communicated with some of them. It must run in my family that gods enjoy spitting on us.

I couldn’t exactly figure out what they said, but one entry was:



Xato Mercless and Deceivor tol me that start

* Get fin dthe hub quik

* Shut off or blewed up



I took that note and looked up Xato on my tele. Indeed, The August Indifference, Xato the Merciless, Deceiver of Evenings was a royal Boranjame in a worldship. One of the biggest of the big boys. It had last been seen 123 years ago at the far edge of the galaxy. But Frank’s notation of Xato was just two jumps out of Belvaille and less than four months back.

I wanted to see how big this map was and I went scrolling. It took me five minutes to reach the edge and I practically broke my finger. These maps were made for children so they were very tactile and sluggish. I suppose the learning tools of Colmarian kids were perfect for Ontakian combat models like me and my uncle.

I found an entry way out there. It said:



Anker

* collapser destoy



And there was a one-way link back to the ski city entry that Delovoa had sworn was Belvaille. That “Anker” was outside of our galaxy.

Frank was a face-beater and con man. How did he put this map together? If he got help, they sure as hell didn’t help with spelling. But how could he possibly know about anything outside of our galaxy?

Another entry I found for Boranjame was terse:



Megallion tolt me we dooomed



There was only one reference in my tele to Righteous and Disparate, Mega-Delillion. He was a Boranjame who had dropped in on a small Colmarian planet a bit over three hundred years ago. He told everyone to leave.

He waited two days and then destroyed the planet.



I stopped in to discuss Frank’s map with Garm, though I didn’t expect she would be able to provide me any clues.

She was at one of the Navy buildings connected to the former telescope complex. I met her in an office adjacent to a conference room. Inside the room, I could see about thirty soldiers sitting around, drinking coffee—or their species’ equivalent to coffee.

“Hold on,” she said. “I need to introduce myself to the people who are going to be at the operation tomorrow. A little pep talk. Wait here.”

She went out of the office to the conference room and closed the door. No one saluted her, or snapped to attention, or seemed much to care. Garm was in another organizational branch in the Navy and she had very little power over these soldiers.

The troops in question were made up of species from all over the Confederation. It was tough to tell what they were thinking, but they all seemed like they didn’t want to be there. Garm stepped in front of them and began her speech.

While I could see through the window, I couldn’t hear them.

I fiddled around with some controls in the office until I managed to turn on the intercom speakers.

“And so that’s where I’m coming from,” Garm continued. I missed the first bit of her talk. “I’ve got two objectives in this. First, I have to follow my directives.” Garm placed her hand in the air above her head. “Second, I have to stay alive and keep you alive.” She put her other hand above the first one. “Following orders is nice. But not dying is way nicer.”

The military folks weren’t impressed. They were clearly there because they had been ordered to. Garm was observant enough to pick up on that.

“Okay, let’s be honest. None of you have worked for me. I’m just a glorified civilian, right? You also may have heard I’m a Quadrad. That is true. The Navy hired an assassin. That’s me. But that doesn’t matter. Tomorrow is about you.”

The soldiers fidgeted and yawned and looked at her with practiced, blank expressions.

“I presented a very compelling set of evidence that proved the Cartel was behind the telescope sabotage. It wasn’t true, but that doesn’t matter,” Garm said.

That statement garnered a slight bit of interest from everyone.

“I was informed by your Appurtenance Commandant, who is an official about eight tiers above you and thirty lightyears from here, that your entire unit—everyone that had been guarding the telescopes—is not only slated to be disbanded and dispersed, but your military careers will forever be limited. There is even serious talk of having you all court martialed, held for treason, or at least drummed out of the service,” she continued.

And now everyone was intent and alert.

“The entire galaxy knows about the snarled traffic. Because it’s resulted in shortages, starvations, and chaos. There are a bunch of reasons for our current mess. But no one is going to hold Delovoa, an entirely obscure and weirdo scientist to blame. No, they blame the Navy. And the Navy blames those individuals who had been tasked with protecting the telescopes. And if you’re keeping score, that’s your sorry asses,” she said.

Some grunts began to speak.

“Shut it! This isn’t question-and-answer time. I’m not your guidance counselor or priest or friend!” she snapped. “The Cartel aren’t who they say they are. They have someone with them who is important. Important enough he could possibly rescue your pathetic existences if we manage to capture him. But don’t think it will be easy. They might have some technology that is way beyond anything you’ve ever seen—such as technology capable of blowing up miles of telescopes without a trace.”

Garm walked to the side to get some coffee, turning her back on the anxious soldiers. It was a dramatic moment, calculated to have them soak in what they just heard.

“If you don’t follow my orders, no matter what I tell you to do, I will fully endorse every punishment that is already slated to land squarely on your miserable heads and add a few of my own. At the end of said punishment, you will either be ready to die, or ready to live. I can work with either. I can’t work with people who aren’t sure where they stand on the whole life thing. You guys have already proven you suck at soldiering. This is your only chance to salvage your reputations—and careers—before you are officially scattered across the galaxy to pay for your sins,” she said.

She walked close and lowered her voice so that I had to put my ear right up to the speaker.

“I’m not a military commander. I’m not a tactician. I have no idea if you’re operating a mortar correctly or how to march and turn and signal and salute. But as far as you’re concerned, I am your lord and benefactor. I am the only being capable of rescuing your lives. Now…does anyone have any questions?”

The soldiers had nothing to ask.



We wanted to surprise Thad Elon, but pulling together a team capable of invading a small planet didn’t happen in an hour.

And I, myself, was not ready. I was in the far northeast corner of the city, about to gamble my life on a long shot.

I hadn’t explained to anyone what I was doing. I felt sure they would try and talk me away from this course of action. But I was greatly concerned that Thad Elon would anticipate everything we did.

We felt we were being clever and outrageous and changing the rules by attacking Thad Elon instead of trying to deduce his schemes. And it seemed a bold course of action, gathering an army of thugs and military and professional chefs on a few days’ notice.

But what was audacious for mortal beings was not of much consequence to an immortal.

I had seen, and helped, Thad Elon die on a number of occasions. It was literally impossible for him to have survived any one of the many instances that should have destroyed or permanently incapacitated him. And during each of those events, he never expressed the slightest bit of concern, dismay, shock, or pain.

And here he was again.

The idea that this time we would take him by surprise and cripple him was not only forgetting all the times we had personally failed to do that, but it was ignoring millions of years where similar efforts didn’t succeed. While many species liked Thad Elon, there were huge swaths of the galaxy that literally detested him. But of all the tales and stories and superstitions with Thad Elon as the subject, there was not one that hinted at him losing—at anything.

Maybe he was expecting our attack. Maybe he had spies in any, or all, of the groups we were using. Maybe the future-seeing Boranjame told me to run away because it knew what was going to happen in our assault—and it wasn’t good.

My job in the coming fight was to block off the far side of the street and prevent Thad Elon from escaping. I would not only be shot at by the Cartel in the buildings, but I’d be in the direct line of fire from 250 gang members, and errant blasts from tanks and mortars and whatever else.

While I appreciated the confidence my team had in my abilities, it simply wasn’t a job I could hope to pull off alone.

“Hey, Wallow,” I yelled up at the giant. “Hey!”

He didn’t hear me. Because as nerve-wracking as it was trying to make contact with the creature who had casually thrown me across the city, he was also going to make me break my vocal cords attempting to get his attention.

It took five minutes of frantic yelling and jumping around and trying to move into his line of sight for him to finally notice me.

“Hank!” Wallow shouted.

Before I could do so much as blink, he reached down and picked me up in one hand. Up this close, in his face, he looked decidedly psychotic. But his breath smelled good—Cliston had one of his classes providing meals to the creature.

“I squeeze, your head pop off,” Wallow continued conversationally.

“Please don’t. I’m just here to talk,” I said.

He leaned over and loosened his grip. I fell to the street from about eight feet, twisting my ankle and smacked the back of my head on the ground. I was dazed for about a minute. Wallow merely dropping me—from a lowered height—was enough to become staggered.

It was insanity that I was even near a Therezian.

And that fact made Wallow an unknown variable. Thad Elon could plan for tanks and bombs and goons with guns. But could he really prepare for a Therezian? Especially knowing that Wallow disliked me more than anyone in the city.

We needed a stopper to block of the far end of the street while getting shot at. I could sort of do it. But if two thousand Cartel rushed at me, I wouldn’t be able to do a damn thing—let alone magically pick out Thad Elon from the helmeted bunch. But Wallow could block them.

I had planned what I was going to say to Wallow. I had all sorts of justifications and back histories and clever anecdotes. But seeing him up close, and getting dropped on my ass, made me forget my script.

“So, there’s this guy. A bad guy. We need him captured,” I said.

“Don’t care. I should step on you,” Wallow replied, but he thankfully didn’t lift his foot.

“Someone woke you up! Someone—I think—was controlling you. You remember? I saw you trying to pick the equipment from your head. This is the guy who did that,” I said.

Wallow looked all kinds of skeptical and angry. But for the moment, he was listening.

“You’re one of the last Therezians in the galaxy. Your entire species was wiped out. This is the guy that did that. He’s the one that used your people as weapons,” I continued.

“Thad Elon?” he asked.

It surprised me that he knew that. It shouldn’t have. Objectively, I knew that Wallow wasn’t stupid. He spoke in a kind of clipped language, likely because there was never a school big enough to teach him properly. And it just seemed natural that an enormous giant should be dumb. But with every encounter, I knew that Wallow was at least as smart as any of the roughnecks on Belvaille—though that wasn’t much of an accomplishment.

“Yeah, Thad Elon is here. We want to catch him before he…does something like he always does,” I said.

“You lying?” he asked suspiciously.

“Wallow, you know me. I don’t lie. At least not very well. I’m not going to come here and try and con you. For what? Money? You can kill me,” I said.

“Zadeck say you bad liar,” Wallow agreed.

“Wow. Zadeck. Your first boss. That was like a thousand years ago. He’s dead. They’re all dead. It’s you and me and Thad Elon still alive. I swear I’m not lying.”

“Where is he?” Wallow asked, looking around. As if Thad Elon might be floating nearby, forty feet in the air.

“Wait, I have to explain how we’re attacking him. There’s a lot of us. You and I only have to prevent him from escaping,” I said.

“We work as team?” he asked.

“Yeah,” I said, smiling. “We sure can.”

“No. I hate you.”

My shoulders slumped at that news.

“Wallow, what did I ever do to you, man? You’ve disliked me forever. I have never said anything bad about you. I’ve never done anything bad to you. And you’ve beaten me into a coma and put me in the hospital at least a half dozen times,” I said. “I’ve always tried to get on your good side and be friendly and you’ve never wanted anything to do with me.”

“You a bully,” he said.

“How could I possibly bully you? I can’t even reach past your toes.”

“Not me. Others. You threaten them. You a big man. You strong. You can’t be hurt. You bully them. They all scared of you,” he said.

“Well…it’s kind of my job. I get shot up all the time. I get hurt. I try and talk to people, but this is a dangerous city,” I said.

“You get hurt. They die. They scared of you. So I make you scared of me. That is fair,” he said.

It was a startling admission. I had no idea why Wallow always hated me. I would have never guessed it was for a nuanced reason like that. I bullied others. He bullied me.

It wasn’t exactly cosmic equilibrium, but I could understand it.

“Alright. We don’t have to be working together as a team. You guard half the street. I’ll cover the other half. We’re after Thad Elon. That’s what is important. He obliterated your entire species, Wallow.”

“I know,” the giant began. “But he Thad Elon. We won’t beat him.”





CHAPTER 17


War



The Cartel Conquest began.

The Cartel had been designated the target, cause, concern, and general bogeyman of this encounter. But criminals were notorious gossips and word of Thad Elon’s involvement began to circulate.

Podiver Vance removed a score of his people to keep superstitious rumors at a minimum. It wasn’t an issue that gang members were suspected of harboring any particular reverence toward Thad Elon. It was more a concern that if told they were about to fight the creator of civilization armed only with handguns and body odor, they might choose to rethink their involvement.

Much like Podiver Vance, Garm had to turn away large numbers of eager troops, but for different reasons. Garm simply wasn’t a military leader. She was an excellent hand-to-hand fighter and crooked bureaucrat. But she couldn’t dream of organizing a full-scale army.

She was bringing significant firepower, but they were small enough that they could operate independently without requiring chains upon chains of command, structure, and support. If she had requisitioned the entire northside Belvaille Navy, they would have caused more harm than good.

Of course, the Cartel Conquest went sideways almost immediately.

Since we were trying to keep things quiet to avoid alerting the enemies, no one in the city was informed of what was going on. And we didn’t set up things ahead of time because people tended to notice military bunkers and storehouses containing hundreds of weapons.

Normally, the route would have been secured and cleared in advance of moving so many people and hardware. There would have been guards along the way and signs and frozen stoplights. But that would have been terribly obvious.

In consequence of our subterfuge, as a tank tried to drive across town, it got stuck in traffic.

It wasn’t an unusual amount of traffic, just regular workday traffic. And it was made exponentially worse by the fact a battle tank was aggressively trying to navigate it. As much as cars really, really wanted to get out of the way of a military vehicle of death, they simply weren’t able to fly or make other cars fly. In fact, many criminal drivers, nervous about what they saw in their rearview mirrors, simply abandoned their vehicles and ran for their lives—which of course exacerbated the traffic situation.

As Garm was dealing with that logistical headache, the first of Podiver Vance’s team began to arrive.

Getting 250 criminals to congregate at precisely the same time was kind of like attempting to catch a comet—in flight—on the head of a needle. The ones who came early were even too early to get Cliston’s food, which was not yet prepared.

When the hoodlums in the street reached about twenty people, who had nothing better to do, they began shooting at the Cartel buildings. They knew that was ultimately the objective, so they figured they might as well get a head start.

It was safe to say we had completely lost our element of surprise. The only surprises were how terribly planned and ineffective we turned out to be.

The street thugs quickly ran out of ammunition, and no Cartel had even bothered to crack their windows to find out what the idiots in the street were up to. As more criminals trickled in, they were encouraged to throw all their bullets at three large buildings while they waited for breakfast to be served.

It wasn’t until Podiver Vance and MTB arrived that things began to nudge themselves back into a semblance of order.

MTB’s main team consisted of twenty police who were supposed to arrest or kill the twenty Cartel in the opposite buildings no one was shooting at. But they couldn’t even reach the front door while Podiver’s jerks were throwing bullets down the street. MTB had not anticipated criminals who woke up before dawn.

Now the police had no intention of blundering into that building to try and dislodge people who had the chance to prepare. They’d get slaughtered.

The festivities had started so early that the main buildings hadn’t even been blocked and barricaded yet. So Thad Elon could have simply walked out the back door and no one was even there to see him go.

As such, MTB called everyone on the tele to strongly suggest they postpone the Cartel Conquest. It had begun half-assed, they were scattered, the schedule was in shambles, and they had no idea where Thad Elon was any longer.

But Garm said no, and Podiver Vance said no, and I said no.

Podiver said it because 250 guys were pumped up and expecting violence. And if what they were promised fizzled out, those crooks would find violence somewhere else. And Podiver Vance was merely an unbelievably tall and spindly rug salesman.

Garm said no because she was paying all those thugs to do nothing. And she justified it by realizing that if Thad Elon killed her, her money wouldn’t be much use. But she couldn’t—and wouldn’t—keep footing the bill over and over. Not only was it a lot of money, it disturbed her frugal sensibilities.

And I said no because I had gotten Wallow moving and—kind of—working in cooperation with me. If I suddenly turned around and told him to go away, after hours of precarious convincing, it took a mere flick of his wrist or ankle or glob of spit to put me back in the hospital or the morgue.

Besides, we couldn’t try and stage a street invasion every other day and hope it would be a surprise. And every hour we delayed was an hour of Thad Elon doing whatever it was he was doing.

But it was clear that the Cartel Conquest had essentially morphed into the Cartel Crap. We had attempted to organize a full-scale assault utilizing disparate—and antagonistic—forces and it had turned out exactly like anyone with half a brain would have anticipated.

Moods were universally sour. That was the only consistency amongst our forces.

And then breakfast was served.

Cliston, that wonderful metal messiah, had hauled us back from the precipice, dragging us by our stomachs. Mere mortal words were insufficient to describe the taste, body, and emotional sensations that overtook us as we enjoyed our food.

Each meal, snack, drink, dessert, and even the cutlery, napkins, and tableware were customized to each person. The fact he managed to do this with only days’ notice was a miracle.

Cliston baked in mysterious ways.

However, he did have the assistance of nearly two hundred sub-chefs, second chefs, sous chefs, saucier chefs, and waiters.

And it wasn’t as if the ingredients were hard to find. All these people had to eat on Belvaille when they weren’t shooting at buildings. Cliston merely had to take all those morsels, transmogrified them into fantastically succulent provisions, and then disperse and distribute them to well-armed miscreants who were engaged or about to engage in open warfare.

But it wasn’t just food. To refer to this meal as such was an insult.

We were left with not only energy, but feelings of dedication and comradery. We had a shared kinship borne from the fact we had all partaken of Cliston’s bounty. If we lived another thousand years and attacked another thousand buildings, we would all look back fondly on this moment.

Cliston had, somehow, even known to prepare food for Wallow. I hadn’t told anyone I was going to attempt to persuade the creature, and here was a quarter acre of what smelled like fish gumbo paired with fifty gallons of fortified wine.

I wouldn’t say the effects were quite as pronounced on the Therezian. But I did see him crack a small grin.

And just like that, we were back on track. The Cartel Conquest could begin, or restart, in earnest. The teams were beginning to move to their positions, feeling satiated and happy after their wonderful Cliston breakfasts. If the fighting went on long enough, Cliston stated he was prepared to serve lunch, dinner, and a post-dinner convivia. If the battle went past that, we would be out of food—but, realistically, we’d also be dead.

Despite our good feelings, there was no denying our element of surprise had been completely trampled by the early gang. However, MTB reported there had been no acknowledgement or response by the Cartel. There were some of them milling around in the street like nothing unusual had happened.

While we attempted to figure that out, Podiver explained it for us.

“You have to remember my team is made up of pickpockets and nose pickers. No one here is a marksman. We can only hit the buildings because they’re buildings and there’s hundreds of us. All those Cartel walking around…probably didn’t even realize anyone was specifically shooting at them,” he said.

The back of the buildings were finally blockaded by MTB’s tank and some trucks. Garm’s mortar team and machine crew were setting up—though the tank was still en route.

Somewhere between 200 and 400 gang members were armed, in the street, and mostly facing the correct direction.

And I was moving with Wallow into our place, taking a few blocks as a detour so we didn’t get in anyone’s way.

“How did you think to get Wallow?” Garm asked me on tele.

“He’s a real deus ex machina,” I explained.

“What language is that? What’s it mean?”

“I don’t know. I saw it in a bathroom once. I think it translates into, ‘employ a monstrous behemoth whenever you can,’” I said.

“That was a wise bathroom,” she replied.

“Yeah. All the great thinkers use them.”

Of course, other things were getting screwed up. Podiver had barricades he was supposed to put in the street so his gang wasn’t standing out in the open. It was provided by MTB and broken down into sections.

One guy didn’t show up with his piece. Another guy got tired of carrying his and left it six blocks away. One person gambled a piece away last night. One responsible party brought his early, and promptly put it in front of the Cartel buildings—so it was providing slight cover to them. And one woman came late and couldn’t get her piece turned the correct way with all the bodies in the way. So it was two rows back and parallel with the street. If the gang started shooting at each other, they would be protected from the knees down.

Garm’s team was better prepared. Surrounding both of the heavy weapons were small barricades of simple sandbags. They were made even more simple by the fact they were filled with oxidized metal instead of sand. Part of the responsibility at the docks was the cleaning and repair of cargo ships that passed through. In consequence, Belvaille had large storehouses of rust and corroded and corrupted metal. While spaceships didn’t hang out in atmosphere all that often, some did, and they were capable of rusting just like any other machinery. Junk barges came by every few years to haul away all our waste—for a fee, of course. But in the meantime, we were more than capable of producing some extremely heavy, and bulletproof, sandbags.

When I got into position with Wallow, we were three full blocks away from the gang army. And despite repeated warnings, announcements, pronouncements, and cursing from Podiver Vance, his team immediately started shooting at us.

I parked us this far away because I guessed what would happen. This was not my first trip to Belvaille. Hell, it wasn’t even my first war on Belvaille.

Another big reason I wanted the big guy was because he was a big target. Three blocks away, the pistols from the gang wouldn’t trouble me all that much—assuming they could hit. The rifles, however, would hurt a lot, but I was relying on what Podiver said: that those guys weren’t good shots. They would get frustrated missing me and turn to the easier target. But to Wallow, any kind of firearms were absolutely nothing. He could just about eat a volcano and not get heartburn. A few bullets bouncing off his ankles wouldn’t even get his attention.

Our assault of the Cartel buildings was supposed to start with the tank. Nothing woke up a building like a tank shell punching through. But the tank wasn’t here. So Garm had her mortar team throw a shell at each of the three buildings.

They were loud blasts that busted windows up and down the block. But these were hearty Belvaille structures and the explosions didn’t come close to making any holes or otherwise doing much of significance.

We then waited. We weren’t sure what for.

All the principals were connected via tele. From there, we could give directions to our individual groups.

“Shoot some more mortars,” I said.

“We got limited ammo. And breaking windows isn’t the best use of high-explosive rounds,” she said.

“Where’s the tank?” MTB asked, concerned.

He was standing in the street with the Navy, which had seemed like an unbelievably safe location—when a tank was supposed to be in front of him.

“It’s stuck on 38th and Rickan Is A Stupid Jerk Idiot Street,” she said. “Apparently, everyone jumped out of their cars when they saw a tank.”

“That’s fourteen blocks away. We’ll be dead before it gets here,” Podiver exclaimed.

“Dead from what, boredom?” I asked.

Indeed, nothing was happening. Apparently, the thousands of Cartel were very late, very heavy sleepers.

“I think those guys in front of us are playing cards,” MTB agreed.

There were several pockets of Cartel members in between a Therezian, two Navy squads, and hundreds of gang members. And they were chatting away, oblivious. Though it was hard to tell precisely what they were doing because of their trademark helmets.

“This is the least spectacular war in history,” I said. “Though I just got shot in the chin by one of Podiver’s people.”

“I told them to stop,” he said.

“Maybe order them? Forcefully?” Garm suggested.

“I’m not forcefully ordering 400 armed felons to do anything,” he objected.

“How do you know there are 400?” MTB asked.

“Cliston did an accounting for the food. 398.”

“So like 150 didn’t get to eat anything? No wonder they’re shooting at me,” I said.

“No, he fed them all. But he said we won’t have tomorrow’s breakfast unless a bunch of us die,” Podiver explained.

“Delovoa, do you have anything that won’t kill us that can wake up the Cartel and not kill us?” I asked.

“I don’t like having all these arbitrary conditions imposed upon my work,” he replied. I couldn’t tell if he was being serious or sarcastic.

“And I don’t relish the idea of having to walk into those buildings beating on pots and pans and calling out for Thad Elon,” MTB said.

“I can pick up something from home. It will take me about ten or so minutes,” Delovoa said.

“That will give my people more time to set up,” Garm replied.

“Yeah, well, more time isn’t good for my guys. They need something to shoot at or they will get antsy,” Podiver said.

“They’re already shooting at me and Wallow,” I said.

“You sure you can keep that guy from stomping all over us?” MTB asked nervously.

“No,” I snorted. “But if he does, I’ll be the first to go.”

“Alright Delovoa. Get your gear. And come prepared next time,” Garm said.

“I’m terribly sorry if I’m new at this,” he said. “I know you all mount invasions of immortal beings who won’t come out of their houses every third week. I’ll be better next time.”

“I’m going to try and unstuck my tank,” Garm said. “Will you guys be okay alone?”

“No,” MTB replied. “You can’t leave a mortar team and heavy machine gun with no one in command. They’ll either do too much or too little. And either way we’ll probably end up getting killed.”

“I can’t put you in charge, you’re not Navy. I’m barely in charge of them on a technicality,” she said.

“I didn’t say I want to be in charge. I want someone in charge, though,” MTB replied. “They got more destructive capabilities than all the rest of us combined and multiplied by a thousand. My guys have riot guns, pistols, and whistles—whistles. We’re practically comic relief.”

“Well, unfortunately there aren’t any handy lieutenants standing around who are briefed on this entirely illegal operation and able to take over,” she said.

“Then send someone else to get the tank. That’s just moving cars out of the way,” I said. “MTB is right.”

“Fine. MTB, your guys are better at writing traffic tickets anyway. Send some of your people,” she said.

“If I do, I’m afraid they won’t come back,” he said.

“A Navy armored unit isn’t going to murder a bunch of police officers. Even if they’re dirty cops,” she said.

“No, they might not come back because they are dirty cops. I had trouble getting them here in the first place and now nothing is going on. They have businesses they could be shaking down,” he said. “If you had bothered to pay them like you paid Podiver’s goons, my people would at least have more incentive to stick around.”

“I’m not a damn bank! I can’t fund every jerk with a gun,” she said.

“I’m providing a lot more people than you are, MTB,” Podiver countered. “And so far, my guys are the only ones shooting.”

“Shooting at Hank and an absurdly dangerous Therezian,” MTB said.

“Hey. Everyone shut up,” I shouted. “Between getting shot in the forehead and all your crying, I’m getting a headache. I’ve almost completely forgotten Cliston’s cooking.”

“Yeah, that was good,” Garm agreed.

“Did you guys have that yellow sauce?” Podiver asked. “It wasn’t specifically for my meal, but the lady serving it said I could have a little cup. It was like a whirlwind across my tongue.”

“He made me these chocolate-finger things,” MTB began breathlessly. “And each one had a number printed on it for the order to eat it. And it was like Podiver said: each flavor cascaded and built on the last one. Do you know what those are called, Hank?”

“No. I just eat the stuff,” I replied.

“Guys,” Delovoa began, you could hear stuff banging around in the background behind the call. “I offered Cliston a job as my butler. I said I’d pay him half of what the Navy was going to give me to fix the Portals. And he refused.”

“That’s low class, Delovoa,” Garm said.

“Yeah, pretty sleazy trying to steal from Hank,” MTB agreed.

“Oh, sure. We’re such upper-crusty masters of pedigree and charm,” Delovoa sneered. “At the moment I’m scrounging up armaments to launch inside of a populated city. But, no, no, butler theft is going too far. You all are a laugh.”

“But it’s Cliston,” Podiver said. “You don’t haggle over an artist like that. Even I know that much. And I dropped out of middle school to sell stolen skin care products.”

“Let’s get back on the subject of tanks. We only got one tele station here to communicate with and we need to stay focused,” I said.

“Alright. I’ll send a few people to try and sort out Garm’s tank,” MTB said. “I’ll tell my guys every car they move they can keep.”

“Sure. Treat it like salvage,” Podiver said.



Things like this went on for some time. The Navy was getting restless and even Wallow started hopping from foot to foot now and then. The gang kept taking pot shots but they were being verbally restrained by Podiver Vance, who didn’t want them using up their bullets before they had any real targets.

The first casualties on our side, somewhat ironically, came from MTB’s police. With no one shooting and nothing going on, they figured it was at least somewhat safe to enter the opposite building. They would hold position until ordered otherwise. It wasn’t considered a valuable role, considering we had lost our surprise, and MTB didn’t go with them, wanting to keep an eye on his street forces and not get distracted fighting inside an apartment building.

But since that building wasn’t blocked off, we wanted to at least monitor what the Cartel inside were doing so they didn’t try and flank us or otherwise mess things up.

And then MTB had something disturbing to report.

“My guys are telling me they have armor,” he said.

“Who has armor?” Podiver asked.

“The hostiles in the cross,” he said, using our term for the lone enemy building across the way. “My men are shooting them to no effect. We’re pulling back.”

“Why? Are the Cartel firing?” Garm asked, confused.

“Yes! We’ve sustained injuries,” MTB replied.

“Oh, I didn’t realize. I couldn’t hear with Podiver’s army blasting every trashcan and potted plant in the street,” she said.

“You know, I think those Cartel guys are getting shot. I’ve seen their clothes ruffle more than a few times,” Podiver said.

“So you’re saying they have high pain tolerances?” I asked.

“No, they must have on some tricked-out, Thad Elon body armor. Which is why they don’t give a damn we’re shooting at them,” MTB explained.

“If that’s true, this could go sideways real fast. They outnumber us by a lot,” Garm said. “Didn’t you and Hank kill a bunch of them?”

“That was earlier. And it was Frank’s house bomb that did it,” MTB explained.

“Well, how would a Frank explosive device compare to the weapons we have available here?” she asked.

“They can’t all be armored. That’d be a ton of gear to buy and ship around,” I said.

“What does that matter?” Garm shot back. “You think Thad Elon is working under budget constraints?”

“If they’re so protected that we need to use bomb-level damage, then nothing except that tank, mortar, and Wallow are going to do much. Maybe the machine gun—if you hit them in the neck or something,” MTB said.

“Don’t count on Wallow being an active fighter,” I replied. “I told him we were here to stop them escaping.”

“Yeah, I don’t want a Therezian bouncing around in front of me either,” Garm said. “We won’t be able to shoot past him.”

“If Wallow moves forward, you can be certain every single person on this side is going to run like hell,” Podiver said.

“Especially after your people spent thirty minutes shooting him,” MTB grumbled.

“What I think—” I began, but I was interrupted.

From out of nowhere, a missile screamed up the road, slammed into the middle, tallest building, and kept on screaming. It was really, unbelievably loud. Like a hundred sirens composed of the worst, most annoying sounds possible.

“Does that help?” Delovoa said, on the tele.

If I didn’t have tele speakers directly in my ear canals, I wouldn’t have been able to hear him. I was three blocks away and covering my ears.

“Damn, Delovoa!” Garm shouted. “What the hell is that?”

“I’m marketing it as a kind of fireworks display—for communities that hate each other,” he answered.

“You’re supposed to give us some warning,” MTB screamed. “My nose is bleeding.”

MTB was one of the closest people on our side to the “fireworks” and it was difficult to hear him clearly as the missile was sounding into his microphone.

“Oh, right. Fire up the pole!” Delovoa cheered.

“Fire in the hole,” MTB corrected.

“Fire in your hole?” Delovoa asked. “That’s like announcing you have a venereal disease.”

“How long does this stupid thing last?” Podiver asked.

“I’m not sure,” Delovoa replied. “Pretty effective, isn’t it?”

The Cartel Conquest, which had already been pretty low on conquest, came to a halt. Everyone was shielding their species’ equivalent of ears from the obnoxious noise. It went on for several minutes and the following silence was deafening—probably because everyone’s hearing had been permanently damaged.

And then the Cartel finally woke up.

Delovoa’s alarm clock must have made them realize they had been under half-assed attack for an hour, and they began firing back. Every window, blown open by the earlier mortar blasts, every balcony, and every fire escape were now populated with helmeted Cartel members shooting pistols.

The Cartel were not particularly well armed. They were not particularly good shots—you could tell just by how they aimed. But there were a hell of a lot of them.

And it was then that we realized the extent of our defensive shortcomings.

The gang members had no cover whatsoever, and there were hundreds of them bunched in the street. Even the most inaccurate of shooters could hit the gang simply by aiming roughly down the road.

Garm’s heavy weapon teams had rust-bag barricades more durable than armor plating. But they weren’t an enclosed forcefield. Most of the Cartel were shooting from the buildings. Buildings that were elevated, because they were buildings. So they were shooting down at an angle and the sandbags couldn’t provide cover unless the Navy crouched down on the ground—in which case they wouldn’t be able to do anything.

And like MTB pointed out, these Cartel creeps didn’t seem upset that they were getting shot. The mortar team threw six rapid fire mortars and clearly hit some of them, blasting them far into the building. But they hurried back and continued firing.

The last mortar destroyed the flooring of one of the balconies and two Cartel members fell three stories to the sidewalk. A cheer went up from the gang mob when they saw that. But then those same Cartel staggered to their feet and resumed shooting! They weren’t merely equipped with body armor that could block bullets and shrapnel. Their protection could even absorb the internal injuries that should have resulted from falling thirty feet to the ground.

Enough bullets were coming from the Cartel, which seemed to have infinite members, that even the Navy forces began taking casualties. The Navy was equipped with armor and helmets. But it was merely space station armor. The gear covered the chest, shoulders, groin, and three-quarters of the head. But the air was thick with Cartel bullets that were ricocheting off walls, roads, and rust-filled sandbags.

The Navy troops all took shelter behind their bags and stopped firing completely.

“We’re getting blasted to pieces over here!” Podiver yelled.

The only reason the gang hadn’t completely turned tail and run was because they were too thick. The ones in back were protected by those in front and holding them in place.

It had been a joke that MTB had stated: Saying the only way we could deal with the enormous Cartel numbers was if they walked out of the buildings and stood in the street for us to shoot at.

But that’s exactly what they did!

There were only so many windows and balconies for them to use. So masses of them simply poured outside. The entire block was filled with helmeted Cartel shooting in seemingly random directions.

I stood watching it with my mouth ajar. I then got shot on the tongue as a result. But it was from far enough away that it didn’t do anything other than force me to shut my trap after spitting out a small bullet.

There was nothing I could do in this situation. There must have been five hundred or so Cartel in the road and the same number hanging out of every crack and crevice in those buildings.

They appeared to be entirely incompetent shooters and tacticians, but they were fearless and they weren’t dropping when hit.

“What the hell is going on?” MTB said, echoing my thoughts.

“We need to pull out,” Podiver said. “Garm, why aren’t your guys shooting?”

“Half my people are down,” she replied.

“I’m about to get trampled by my own team. Get those guns firing,” Podiver yelled.

“We knocked them around with mortars and it didn’t faze them. Hank, can you do anything?” she asked.

“I got a shotgun,” I said, dumbfounded. “I guess…I guess I can ask Wallow to attack.”

“No!” Podiver yelled. “That will scatter everyone. We’ll be getting shot in the back and stepped on.”

“Guys, guys. I got word the tank is almost here,” MTB said. “Two blocks out. Has to turn. We need to push them back to clear room.”

“Alright,” Garm said.

It took a few moments after she said that, as more and more Cartel filled the streets, but then that .50 caliber machine gun came alive.

From where I stood, it sounded like extremely loud fabric tearing. So fast you couldn’t hear the individual bangs.

The mass of Cartel was pushed like water. I saw individuals actually rolling, propelled by oversized bullets.

It went on for exactly ten seconds. Which was the maximum it could burst before the weapon overheated and nearly melted. 830 bullets were sprayed into the crowd. The building behind took such a beating the air was filled with dust from shattered ceramic and plastic.

And then one by one, the Cartel members that had been hit, slowly got to their feet.

“That’s not possible,” I said.

Not even the best body armor in the galaxy could block that. It was literally impossible to have something that durable be carried by regular people—and not have an extension cord running to a nearby nuclear power plant. That machine gun would have killed me. And these Cartel guys literally shrugged it off.

Guns were penetrating weapons. That was how they did damage. They were similar concepts to knives or swords. But instead of being long and thin with medium force and low speed, they were short and squat with high force and incredible speeds.

But bullets weren’t flying hammers. They weren’t concussive weapons. The fact the Cartel were thrown around by the machine gun meant they weren’t being penetrated at all. The energy wasn’t even being distributed or dissipated. They were absorbing all of the kinetic energy and it resulted in them being bodily pushed as twenty bullets smacked into them with the collective force of several blows from a pneumatic piston.

As I was attempting to decipher this hairy physics problem, I saw the tank jut its beautiful face into the street.

Boom!

I actually clapped in celebration.

Boom!

That was a 175-millimeter cannon firing at point-blank range. Just the fireball that erupted from the muzzle was enough to envelop the entire block width-wise. It had to be frightening as hell to a bunch of guys standing with pistols and helmets only feet away from it.

Even Wallow chuckled. Though when he did so, it sounded almost as frightening as that tank gun.

Boom! The cannon repeated.

The tank fired six more times and I saw the lower left of the main building simply crumble apart. I doubted the building would collapse; most of the structures had significant skeletal support beams. But it showed just how crazy that tank was and why we wanted it here leading the attack in the first place.

I couldn’t see anything with the debris and flames and smoke. There was a serious wall of toxic fumes filling the block. Not poison gas, per se, but you weren’t supposed to fire a tank gun of that size that fast in this tight an environment. At least not if you wanted to hang around afterwards.

Everyone and everything was momentarily impaired. If not from the noise, then from the concussion. If not from the light, then from the lack of oxygen. If not from the dust and soot, then from the realization you were standing way too close to an operational tank.

“We don’t have any high explosive shells left. How are you guys situated?” Garm asked.

“I can’t see,” Podiver coughed.

“If anything survived that, we’re done,” MTB said.

“Delovoa, you got any other tricks?” I asked. I was far enough away from the tank that I wasn’t as affected by the combustion gasses.

“Of course,” the scientist said.

“No more shrieking rockets,” Garm said.

The smoke was slowly being cleared away by Belvaille’s robust life support systems. Even though it had copious experience with it, it was still not designed to handle a hundred pounds of military explosives.

When we could finally make sense of the results, we were shocked.

The lower front half of the main building had been almost completely removed. But instead of piles of corpses and dismembered Cartel, not one of them seemed to be hurt!

The tele was completely silent as we watched the Cartel appear to be disoriented, but totally fine. I watched one guy even casually pat down the fire that had erupted on his pants.

And then pulling himself out from under some rubble, I saw him:

“There’s Thad Elon!” I said.

His helmet had been blasted away so his features were clear, even from this distance. I would know that guy anywhere.

“I see him,” Garm said tensely.

And then the tank turned itself inside out.

It was not clean and it was not uniform. It was not like a sock gently being pulled around. It was like metal, in sections, being twisted, turned, shrunken, and expanded. Like a series of optical illusions passing in front of the tank that nonetheless left it deformed and inoperable.

“Wallow! That’s Thad Elon!” I shouted, pointing. “Right there on the ground. Black eyes. Scratching his head.”

It took the Therezian six long strides to reach him, travelling at about fifty miles an hour. Wallow then stomped on the figure of Thad Elon, pushing his foot deep into the superstructure of the space station. Next, Wallow bent over and punched with his left fist. He reached back with his right arm, and inadvertently razed half the building behind him, and then he punched with his right fist.

All of this was done in maybe twenty seconds. Wallow then stood there looking down.

The street was silent other than the aftereffects of the various attacks. Cartel members were in diverse states of recovery, having suffered from mortars, machine guns, tanks, and getting trampled by a charging Therezian.

But then Thad Elon climbed out of the hole in the ground. He got to his feet, dusted off his tattered clothes, and looked up the street.

In my direction.

He raised his arm. I wasn’t sure what for, but then he spoke.

“Oh. Hello, Hank. Would you like to talk for a moment?” Thad Elon asked.





CHAPTER 18


High-Cost Savior



As always, Thad Elon spoke with almost no inflection in his voice. Not even after being battered by a Therezian. The man had been mauled more severely than any lifeform I had ever seen in my entire existence, and yet he seemed entirely indifferent to the ordeal.

Thad Elon asked me if I wanted to talk. And what was I going to say? No? No, thank you? Come back later? Leave a message with my butler?

I slowly walked forward. My feet dragging.

“Be careful, Hank,” Garm warned on my tele.

“Don’t let him get away, Hank,” MTB echoed.

As I kept moving, I felt numb. Like I had done this before. Like I already knew what was going to happen, and it sucked.

Thad Elon stood there with his black eyes. The entirety of his eyes were pure black. His face was soulless and without emotion.

“We got you,” I told him. “You’re not going anywhere.”

And even I didn’t believe those words.

“Let me ask you something, Hank. I am certain you know some stories about me. Such as how I created this or that technology or built up this or that species. But how could I possibly do those things? I do have some abilities. But you have seen Portals. They are enormous. It would take me a million years to construct even one, and there are many of them. So how could I accomplish that in addition to everything else?” Thad Elon asked.

“Well, um, I always figured it was kind of like figurative. You didn’t actually do all that stuff. That you, you know, were kind of—” I stammered, but he held up his hand.

“That was more of a rhetorical question,” he said.

He turned his head to the Cartel around us, still struggling in the ruins of their building. One by one, they began taking off their helmets.

Showing off their black eyes.

“I am legion, Hank,” Thad Elon stated.

“Holy shit,” Garm said.

“It’s not body armor,” MTB added.

We were surrounded by immortals! No wonder nothing had hurt them. Nothing could hurt Thad Elon.

The Thad Elon I had been speaking with, fully turned to address the gang and Navy still in the street.

“For those who do not know me, I am the one you refer to as Thad Elon. I encourage you all to leave this place and go home to your loved ones or celebrate in whatever means you cherish most. For you will all be destroyed in a short while,” he said.

As intimidating speeches went, that was a pretty good one.

Of course, if he made silly animal sounds after disregarding a kick and two punches by a Therezian, it would have still made quite an impact.

As such, everyone began to leave.

They may or may not have believed this was a collection of Thad Elons forecasting ruination. But what they did believe, after seeing it with their own eyes, was the Cartel army had completely ignored a tremendous amount of firepower. In turn, they had inflicted serious losses without even trying.

The gangs, the police, the Navy, were all done with this misadventure. The Cartel Conquest was over and the results were clear: We had been conquered.

“We will stop you,” Garm said defiantly, after hurrying up past her retreating Naval personnel.

“Ah. I am afraid you are about three or four hundred years too late for that. But come, Hank. I have some things to discuss. And this area is…messy. Excuse me.” Thad Elon said that last bit to Wallow, who dutifully moved his foot out of the way. The giant was as stunned as everyone else.

I hurried after the god, sparing a look back. The other Thad Elons were talking to one another as if nothing happened. Garm, Podiver Vance, and MTB all stared after me in fear.

“So, uh, what exactly brings you—you all—to Belvaille?” I asked conversationally.

“Destroying the universe. Again,” he replied.

“Um. We’ll prevent that,” I threatened, my voice shaking.

“Do you suspect I have a button on me that would make such a thing possible? Destroying the universe is not as easy as it sounds—and I cannot expect that it sounds particularly easy. This process has been ongoing for quite some time. It starts at the edge, which is why you have not seen it. Nor will you ever get the chance,” he said.

“But…why?” I asked.

“Did any Boranjame tell you about the dawn of the universe? It is known that you and they often converse. Did they explain how they first came about?”

“Yeah,” I replied uneasily.

But I could tell he wanted me to go on.

“I don’t know if I can quote him exactly,” I continued. “You know, verbatim. Uh. It was like, um, in the…you know, beginning. Once…kind of…once upon a time… No. I guess I don’t really remember.”

“I was merely curious to hear their version. You see, Hank, the universe was once perfect. Actual perfection. It was populated with just one Boranjame. And that was the entirety of creation. Nothing else. It was simplistic, harmonious, perfect.”

We kept walking, going nowhere. Thad Elon crossed a street and a car stopped and blew its horn at him. It was a surreal experience. Some lowlife criminal was honking at Thad Elon, who was explaining creation, as I walked next to him.

“They were honking at you, actually,” Thad Elon said, reading my thoughts. “You are easier to notice.”

“Oh,” I mumbled.

“The universe went on this way for unknowable eons. But a restlessness took hold and grew within the Boranjame, corrupting it. In its loneliness or selfishness or boredom, it decided to create more. It split itself so that it wouldn’t be alone. And that sundering, that self-replication, borne of longing and greed, fractured all of reality. It created infinite universes—universes that follow the same narcissistic laws and impulses that birthed them.”

“So, like, that’s where we come in?” I asked.

Thad Elon looked at me.

“What? No. You are not of any consequence.”

“Oh.”

“The Boranjame style themselves as lords of Order and that I am some harbinger of Chaos. But it is exactly the opposite. They have become flawed duplicates, poisoned by the first mistake of their progenitor. They are unable to take any actions at all without further polluting reality. You yourself have seen or heard ample evidence of this,” he said.

“Are those other guys clones? Are you going to attack?” I asked, trying to steer the conversation back to things I could understand.

“Hank, you know I cannot die. But what if the planet I am on is destroyed? What if the solar system I am in is obliterated? What if the very universe is wiped out?”

“Uh. You mean like from a science-y perspective?”

“That was another rhetorical question. If the universe I occupy is destroyed, I am sent to a different, random universe. But that universe already has a Thad Elon. So now there are two of us,” he said.

“But there was way more than two of you back there,” I said.

“Yes. We are all displaced Thad Elons from other universes that we have destroyed. Which gives you some indication of how many times we have accomplished this feat. To put it in a context you might appreciate: In this universe, I suspect we are as numerous as your typical insect species. And it is through those sheer numbers that we have managed to accomplish so many things.”

“So this is the last universe? And then that’s it? There’s nothing?” I asked, alarmed.

“Oh, no. Nowhere close. This will be my…fifth universe I have destroyed. Others have destroyed much more. Some, less.”

“But…why? Why kill all those…I mean, not even the galaxy. The universe! Why make the Portals? Why did you…why did you help civilization only to destroy it?” I asked.

“This is a common misconception. It is indeed true that I—and when I use that pronoun, I am speaking of the many Thad Elons in this universe—have distributed advanced items and concepts. As I said, destroying the universe is not a simple task. And each time it is different and challenging. The tools and ideas you view as gifts were built for us to complete our tasks—they were never intended for you. The lifeforms of this universe simply stumbled upon them. This tends to happen, no matter how we attempt to conceal them, so we mostly do not bother. In the end it is irrelevant.”

“But I’ve met you. I’ve…fought you. You were just…bored, I thought.”

“You have met several of me, including the native, original Thad Elon of this universe. He had not yet fully understood the implications of a corrupted multiverse. Of the tremendous maliciousness and pain that permeates all of reality because of the conditions of its genesis. With so many Thad Elons from other universes, undoubtedly there are some at various stages of realization,” Thad Elon said.

“But once this universe is gone, you and your team will just go somewhere else and do it again?” I asked.

“We are not a team. We are the same individual. We have never before cooperated together and it is highly unlikely we will be in the same universe after the destruction of this one. However, we will continue until we can return to that original, perfect universe,” he said.

“But you said yourself there was nothing there. You won’t be there. I won’t be there.”

“And of course that is your first response: But what about me? As if the birth of Hank justifies infinite universes full of hatred and harm.”

“There are noble people,” I countered.

“Yes. There are wise, selfless, and caring individuals. And they are so rare they are referred to as prophets or wise men or saints. Their ideas and teaching can inspire civilizations for millennia. But on the other side, there are so many despicable and evil creatures that you need to build warehouses to store them all. They are so common you make dealing with them part of your daily routine. And it isn’t just sentient life that is so twisted, but the entire fabric of the universe, down to its scantest subatomic aspects. And this isn’t true merely for this universe. It is the case across all of reality. And that is what we seek to correct.”

“It’s not correction. It’s annihilation. Extermination,” I said.

“This reality has no purpose.”

“Maybe there doesn’t have to be one. Maybe it’s about the journey. Maybe it’s—” I began.

“You will never amount to anything. You will never be anything. You have no value.”

I stopped short. It’s one thing to have self-doubt. To feel a little blue now and then. But I’d just been told I was personally useless by the creator of civilization.

“I like to think I have some uses,” I began weakly. “I have a good sense of humor. And people tell me I don’t waste food.”

Thad Elon cocked his head, not understanding me.

“Oh, I see. When I said you have no value or purpose, I was not speaking specifically of you, Hank. I was speaking of all life. All matter. All events. Across the multiverse. There is no point to anything in this reality. That is not a flippant or exaggerated statement. It is fact, supported by scientific proof. If there is no point, other than endless suffering, then this reality must be removed,” he said.

“So why are you telling me this? Just to make my last moments depressing?” I asked.

“I am not telling you, Hank. You are of no importance. I am telling the Boranjame, who are always watching and listening. I am imploring them to stop resisting this. To comprehend what they have become and allow us to undo it for the benefit of all.”

“How does murdering everyone and everything provide benefit?” I shouted.

“I cannot expect you to understand. You are a product of this misconception and can be no better than the universe you occupy.”

“There are Boranjame here, on Belvaille Why don’t you go talk to them yourself? Do you expect me to argue your case?”

“The Boranjame were aware of the destruction of this universe—which is why they fled it. As for you, for some entirely unfathomable reason, the Boranjame across the multiverse have consistently used you as a tool, attempting to halt my efforts. It is no coincidence that our paths cross so frequently, it is due to the machinations of the Boranjame. As if a criminal mutant of barely average intelligence could be my nemesis. Bearing you no malice, I have personally killed you three times. Once in this very universe, on this exact space station. You are almost a perfect representation of the failings of this reality and why it must be purged.”

“I’ve stopped you before,” I said angrily.

“Whatever you think you have done, this universe will come to an end momentarily.”

“Forgive me, but that sounds like a load of crap. How can you destroy an entire universe? What’s that even mean?” I asked, trying a different tactic—simply denying he was telling the truth.

Thad Elon waved his hands a bit and looked up. The lights on the latticework dimmed to almost nothing. I followed his gaze and didn’t see anything of importance. No giant hammer was poised above the universe about to crush us.

But then I recognized what I was truly seeing. There were maybe four stars in the entire skyline. It was almost solid black up there. There was nothing. It should be filled with constellations and galaxies.

“Those few stars you see are already gone,” Thad Elon commented. “They were simply close enough that their light is still travelling to us. But they too will fade shortly. This universe is almost dead.”

Thad Elon turned back on the lights and I stood there panting. He really did it.

“How long?” I managed to ask.

“The last bits are always the hardest to purge. But you shouldn’t have long to wait.”

I lunged at Thad Elon, grabbing him by the throat.

I fell on top of him, my weight fully on his neck. Any other Colmarian would have been crushed, their bones broken, their windpipes closed.

“You’re a psychopath!” I screamed.

“No, Hank,” he said, appearing no more concerned than he ever did. “Psychopathy is a product of this reality perverting its inhabitants. I am merely a side effect.”

I released him, realizing I was doing nothing.

“In a way, I envy you—inasmuch as I am able,” he began. “You have been informed the universe is ending and that all actions have no relevance, yet you persist in fighting, in rage. If not for that first Boranjame mistake, so long ago, you might have been a truly remarkable being.”

I sat on the sidewalk next to the immortal. I felt a tingling in my feet. Then my hands. Then my face. I saw a blue glow surrounding my fingers.

“So this is it, then? It’s all over?” I asked.

“No, I’m afraid not. That is the Boranjame interfering yet again. They must have more schemes in mind for you. I suppose we shall resume this conversation at another date, in another universe,” Thad Elon said. And he took the nearly unheard-of action of producing a wistful sigh. “It appears that my appeal to them was an entirely wasted effort.”





CHAPTER 19


Camping



The tingling feeling vanished from my body and was replaced with a different sensation.

Freefall.

I’ve been weightless before. It’s a bewildering experience. Your internal processes can’t make sense of things. Merely swallowing saliva or sniffling your nose feels strange—like you should be consulting the owner’s manual. Being weightless isn’t frightening. It’s just disorienting.

But every species that evolved within gravitational fields knows what it means to be falling. While technically it is similar to being weightless, the difference is you are in atmosphere, and you have a forthcoming meeting scheduled with the ground.

The wind tore at me as I tumbled through the air. I could vaguely see lights, but my brain couldn’t process them. The rushing air deafened me, but I was pretty sure I was screaming.

Like all people in freefall, I grasped and clawed with my hands and kicked my legs. As if plummeting to my doom was equivalent to slipping on a wet floor.

Our frenzied response to falling was a terrible instinct. But that’s because nothing ever got the chance to evolve an appropriate reaction. You either died from the fall or didn’t. No action on the way down had the least effect on the outcome, so you might as well look foolish in the process. Maybe that was the evolutionary adaptation. It wasn’t to protect the person falling—they were already screwed—it was a warning to those watching your ridiculous plummet.

I heard banging and breaking and felt impacts all over my body.

And then my world went dark.

When I awoke, nearly the first thing I did was sneeze. And doing so made me aware that my everything hurt. But it was an ache not agony. I did not seem to be dead or even seriously injured—even though I witnessed Thad Elon destroy the universe. If I was leaking blood or internal organs, they were doing so quietly, without torment or fuss. Which, based upon my considerable experience, is generally not how such injuries behave.

The air smelled strange. Pungent and sharp. Like expired, cut-rate incense that the owner was still trying to pass off on unsuspecting guests.

I was lying on my back atop something hard. I managed to turn my head and see it was a big rock. But not like any of the rocks I had seen on Belvaille. This was a real rock. Unpolished, uncut, rough, and not especially comfortable to land on.

Slowly, I struggled to my feet. There were trees and vegetation everywhere. Literally everywhere.

I was an old man. Probably well over a thousand years old at this point. I can’t say if I looked it or not—right now I certainly felt it. But I had spent about 99.9% of my life in space. All my mind could guess was that some rich jerk had spent a fortune on his personal garden.

It was not an entirely unrealistic idea. At every point in the history of Belvaille, we knew exactly how many plants and trees there were within our borders. It was extremely difficult to transport living things through space. And plants could inadvertently poison—or impregnate—half a hundred alien species by accident. Therefore, trees were not simply sprinkled around enclosed space stations for the hell of it.

But as I evaluated my surroundings, I counted five, ten, twenty different types of plants just in the area around my feet. And I was standing on a great many more.

And the trees! There were hundreds, thousands of them. In every direction. As far as I could see—though that wasn’t saying much. I’m not sure if it was night, or dusk, or the infinite trees simply made it seem dark.

This was like…a jungle. Or a park. Orchard. Or woods. I couldn’t be sure which, because I had never actually seen any of those things. They were mere concepts and entries in the dictionary, to my reckoning.

I took a big whiff of air and began sneezing again. Was this what fresh air smelled like? It was terrible. Like disintegrating, dirty socks filling the air with mildew and fibers. The air felt thick. Heavy enough that I could almost push it away. It’s no wonder I was sneezing so much. I was attempting to breathe solid matter.

Where the hell was I? I’d been speaking with Thad Elon, discussing the finer points of universe annihilation, and now I was here.

“Hello?” I asked the trees.

I’d been living in a modern, congested city most of my life. I knew well the concept of background noise. Every hour of the day I could hear cars, generators, filtration systems, and the nameless, persistent hum of the city itself. The sounds of the city were the sounds of machines.

Wherever I was now, it was just as loud, but the noises were all from living things. Insects of every conceivable type twittered and screeched. The leaves and branches swayed and scraped in the wind. Birds or bats or flying jellyfish—how should I know?—swooped and chirped invisibly overhead.

I decided that I did not like this place.

Not only did the very air irritate my eyes and nose, but there was too much noisy life. So much you couldn’t possibly keep track of it all. Since I was not a fan of my new environment, I endeavored to leave it at once.

I chose a direction in the near dark and began walking.

They couldn’t even construct decent ground here. It was squishy, and uneven, and insanely, unimaginably dirty.

The level of dirt in the grove or forest or thicket was really beyond belief. Every few steps I would stop, brush dirt and soil and plants off of my bare feet, and continue onward. After doing this maybe a dozen times, I realized it was pointless. There was no value in knocking off clumps of dirt if they just hopped back on in a few steps. I was a not a neat freak by any stretch, but this place was absolutely filthy.

I walked for what felt like 48 hours—though if I’m being honest, it was probably closer to 48 minutes—and I was pretty exhausted.

Not only was I beat up from my fall, but I couldn’t breathe very well; I was tilling topsoil with every step; and I had just been teleported. I’m not sure if that last point was relevant, but I thought I’d add it.

Actually, I didn’t know if I had been teleported or not. Thad Elon destroyed my universe and this might be the not-so-great beyond. Every religion had misread the prophesies. And the reason we had never been visited by ghosts or dead ancestors was because they couldn’t find their way back from the wilderness.

I had no idea where I was or how much time had elapsed, because I didn’t have my tele. I had no items whatsoever. I had pants, underwear, and my pink undershirt. Nothing was in my pockets. Nothing was in my hair.

My hair!

I reached up to rub my head and I felt my scalp was completely bald. My luxurious white hair was gone.

I stopped my aimless clomping and felt myself up to see if I was missing anything else. All the important stuff seemed to be there, but I was now completely hairless. I had no eyebrows. I had no eyelashes. I had no armpit hair.

I was wearing a t-shirt, but hairless. What kind of strange teleportation could manage synthetic fabric, skin, blood, and bones, but not hair?

As I was contemplating my existence as a bald wanderer in a messy swamp, I heard a strange sound. It was different from the disconcerting shrieks and squawks of the bazillions of animals around me. I think it was music.

Bad music.

My afterlife was slowly beginning to make sense. I was clearly being punished. Some severe, celestial solicitor must have removed a single hair for every crime I ever committed. There were so many infractions they had to strip me bare down to my knuckles. On top of that abuse, they added lack of illumination, infinite pollen, muck and filth, and terrible melodies.

I knew I should have given up my wayward life and devoted myself to charity when I had the chance. Of course, my imaginary altruistic existence would have needed to be conducted elsewhere. You couldn’t even give someone a scrap of bread on Belvaille without them thinking it was some sort of elaborate con. You’d get punched in the face or shot if you tried to give them money.

With nothing else to do, I attempted to locate the source of the music. The process was exceedingly difficult in the echoing, tree-filled copse.

I circled and circled, going the wrong direction at least a half dozen times, until the lousy music began to slowly get louder. The path to the chorus was, of course, uphill. Because my afterlife wasn’t going to be easy, or sneeze-free, or filled with pleasant evenings spent combing my hair.

I spent another 48 hours climbing the mountain, ridge, or glacier—which were also things I had never seen and only vaguely heard of.

I could see light ahead of me peeking through the foliage as the music grew ever more irritating.

I broke through the dense undergrowth to reach a small clearing. It was still under a heavy canopy of trees, but they were spread farther apart, and the ground was relatively level.

In the center was a natural-gas bonfire, two couches, various hi-tech computer setups, including a small satellite dish, a flat-bed, four-legged walking transport of some sort—which stood about six feet when extended. And the clearing also held two people.

One person was clearly an alien, being covered in a kind of chitinous exoskeleton. But it had two arms, two legs, a torso, and a head. It had on scant clothing and appeared to be dancing to the horrible music.

The other person was wearing what looked to be fully enclosed combat armor and was reclining on one of the couches by the fire. Though at the moment his attention was on me.

“Hey,” I said.

“What the hell are you?” the man on the couch asked, speaking fluent Colmarian.

The dancer kept dancing. Maybe it was a robot, programmed to dance in timberlands to discordant tunes.

“I’m…just me. What is this place?” I asked, looking around at their gear.

“This is the forest,” he said.

“Yeah. I mean I figured that much. What with all the trees. What are you all doing here?”

“Camping. Getting away from the artificial city.”

They were surrounded by electronics and convenience. So they either really liked insects and dirt, or they weren’t telling the full truth.

“Cool,” I said, humoring him. I still wasn’t entirely sure if I was dead or not, and if this was the guy who had plucked off all my hair, I didn’t want to further anger him.

The man got to his feet as I drew closer. I wasn’t trying to crowd them, but it was hard to be heard over the music and I didn’t want to be shouting in the dark. They at least had light from the bonfire and copious electronic gizmos. Though everything around here had an eerie tint because the bonfire flames were mostly blue and white.

Both of the individuals were, broadly speaking, the size of normal Colmarians. They were between five and six feet tall and between one hundred and three hundred pounds. They were tiny little things compared to me.

“Didn’t I just see you fall from the sky?” he asked.

“Yeah, that was me. Probably. I suppose it could have been someone else. I wasn’t here earlier,” I said.

“How…how are you still alive?”

“I landed on a big rock. So what’s the name of this place?” I asked.

“Belvaille.”

“The space station?” I asked, confused.

“There’s no space station here. This is a planet,” the man stomped his boot on the ground to prove it.

“The name of the planet is Belvaille or the name of the forest?” I asked.

“You don’t know what planet you’re on? Did someone throw you out of a spaceship or what?”

“Something like that. What’s his problem?” I finally asked of the nonstop dancing insect.

“Her. It’s a she.”

“Oh, excuse me,” I apologized to the dancing woman.

“Doesn’t matter. She’s going to molt soon and might switch back to male. But she’s acting that way because she had poisonous lizard enzymes sprayed on her eyes.”

“Whoa. Should you get her to a hospital?” I asked. I nervously scanned the ground to see if any poisonous lizards were about to spit at my face.

“No, we brought it with us. You want some?” he asked. He produced a small container that had, I assume, lizard enzymes inside. It was too dark to tell.

“I’m good, thanks. But I’m still trying to get my bearings. What exactly is Belvaille?”

“I’m not sure if the forest has a name. The planet is named Belvaille and the city is named Belvaille,” he said.

“You guys have a name shortage or something?”

“Well, there’s nothing on the planet except the city, so what else you going to call it?” he asked.

“I don’t know. I’ve never had to name a planet before,” I said. I was going to ask for more details, but I didn’t know what to ask. Like I didn’t know sectors or quadrants or galaxies or universe names. So even if he told me that wouldn’t give me any information. “If you’re camping, why are you wearing combat armor?”

“Me? This isn’t combat armor,” he chuckled. “This is life support.”

“Crap. This air is toxic, isn’t it? I knew it smelled strange.”

“I don’t know if it’s toxic. It’s more that all the moisture and dust will end up turning my lungs into a botanical garden after a while,” he said.

“So it is toxic,” I said, trying not to breathe.

“It kind of is to me.”

“What about her?” I asked of the dancer.

“I think she breathes methane. Or, I don’t know, something weird. But she’s fine.”

“How do I know if it’s dangerous to me?” I asked.

“What’s your respiration matrix?” he asked.

“I guess like, air? Normal air?”

“No, I mean how many parts oxygen, nitrogen, helium, whatever.”

“I suppose one of each? I don’t know.”

“You don’t seem to be having troubles. Uh, do you always look like…that?” he asked.

“No. I lost all my hair.”

“Because of the air or because you landed on a rock?” he asked.

“I’m not sure yet.”

“I see. Well, it was nice meeting you,” he said. As if this were a busy street and I was just passing by.

“Can I ask what you do in the city of Belvaille? For work.” I was still a bit suspicious of these two. Who goes camping on purpose?

“Are you a cop?” he replied.

“Me? A woodland cop? Making sure the leaves are following procedures? Do I look like a cop?” I asked.

“You look like a monster. I thought you were going to eat us. No offense,” he added quickly.

“No problem.”

“As for jobs, we do this and that. I mostly steal cars. She rips off tourists.” The woman chittered in a language I couldn’t understand. “Oh, yeah. She also sells drugs.”

“Is there a lot of crime in Belvaille?”

“Most definitely.”

“That’s good. Glad Belvaille is Belvaille, wherever it is. And you two just came out here to relax? Those aren’t weapons?” I asked, pointing suspiciously.

“That’s our stereo system and game station. We didn’t expect to see another living person, so not a huge demand for guns. But yeah, we came out here to be with nature.”

“Is the whole planet this dirty?”

“What do you mean?”

“This,” I said, lifting my foot. “There’s dirt everywhere. On anything I touch.”

“Right. Um. This is a forest. There’s like miles and miles of soil under us. In every direction. That’s kind of how nature works. You’ve never been in a forest?”

“Yeah, sure,” I blurted. “Just not like this particular one. This one seems extra dirty to me. How far is the Belvaille city from here?”

“Maybe seven miles.”

“Ugh. Can that thing drive us?” I asked, of the legged vehicle parked behind us.

“That’s just my Camping Buddy. We rode it out here, but it’s not very fast. Also, it’s only rated for 1,500 kilograms and you kind of look…or seem…super fat—or I mean, heavy.”

“How many pounds is 1,500 kilograms?” I asked.

“It’s 3.14159.”

“Wow, that’s specific,” I said.

“Oh wait, my mistake, that’s pi. I still got a bit of lizard enzymes in my eyes.”

“If you give me a lift into town, I’d really appreciate it,” I said, flashing my least monsterly smile in the blue firelight.

“We weren’t heading back for two more days. And, well, we don’t really know you.”

“I see. It’s just I’m tired, beat up, trying to make sense of falling from the sky, and I’m really, really hungry. I’d hate to have to eat you guys.”





CHAPTER 20


New Town



I felt like a jerk for threatening the two campers, but I didn’t have much choice.

I teleported from the sky and was now alone, in a forest, on the planet Belvaille. Any part of that sentence was enough to make me extremely concerned for my safety and/or sanity.

I’d only ever been on a planet a few times in my life. I’d never been in a forest. And there was a Belvaille unlike the Belvaille I just came from. Where was I? Was Belvaille a common name and I should get used to eating Belvaille from a Belvaille in a Belvaille?

I had no clue what was going on. Not a single clue. But I knew I had to warn people about Thad Elon and I was lost in a nature preserve without a tele.

So the first two people unfortunate enough to meet me were going to have to lend a hand until I could get a little more situated. At least until I knew I wasn’t going to starve to death.

Could you even eat trees? How would I know?

The Camping Buddy personal lifter broke down about eight times on our journey to Belvaille. Mostly just popped chains and gears that we could slap back into place. I was too heavy for it and so along the way we deposited sofas, stereos, satellite dishes, and such. There was a trail of breadcrumbs leading back to the camp site. Except instead of bread, it was high-end consumer products.

The other guys had to walk, also. Which made me feel like even more of a jerk. But I was pretty sure if I walked and let them ride, they would have just taken off and left me with their sofas.

There was almost no communication on the ride back, despite my attempts to learn more about my new location. Threatening to eat your companions tended to discourage small talk.

It was a slow, steady slog with frequent repairs. There was no way I would have made it through on my own. I didn’t know how to navigate by stars. I never got the chance.

Even under the thick forest branches, I could see an approaching night sky.

So…many…stars! No wonder we invented space travel. You couldn’t look up and not want to explore that. Living on a space station, I had forgotten how pretty space was. There were also two moons around this planet—I think. Could be more.

We finally broke through the forest and I could see the city in the distance. That was another strange concept to me: a horizon.

The city was absolutely astounding. It occupied my entire view as far as I could see. Every kind and color of light. A dazzling sight.

“It’s so tall,” I exclaimed.

“You’ve really never seen it before?” my captive asked.

I’m sure that was part of the reason for our tension: they simply didn’t believe my story. I had stated that I had never been to or seen the one city on the entire planet, and I somehow ended up in the middle of their remote camping expedition. For that to happen was technically impossible.

Which is why I believe it didn’t happen technically. Some space gods whisked me here for unknown purposes. Thad Elon stated it was the Boranjame doing it Why, I didn’t know.

“No, this is my first time here,” I said.

“Belvaille is kind of two cities,” he explained. “The real Belvaille is floating above. And it’s massive. There’s also a smaller city underneath it. That’s where we live—and pretty much all the normal people live.”

“So Belvaille is kind of a space station,” I said.

“Not really. It’s not in space. It’s just flying.”

“How does it manage to not run out of fuel? What the hell’re you burning? All these trees? And how did you guys ever make an entire city fly?”

The man chuckled.

“We didn’t construct the floating city. Thad Elon created Belvaille.”



Once I had been reasonably certain I could reach the city on my own power, I apologized to the two campers and let them return to their lizard-enzyme festivities, deep within the forest.

Belvaille.

Now this was a proper city! Or more correctly, two cities.

The one floating above was well out of reach and it seemed absolutely endless. It stretched on forever. So far, in fact, that it appeared to join with the terrain in the far distance. It was explained to me that this was merely an optical illusion, as the upper city curved along with the surface of the planet it orbited and it remained a constant distance of about one mile above ground. It was just so large that what I was seeing was the curvature of the planet and the city that traced it.

The upper Belvaille had appeared white and gleaming when I viewed it from the forest edge. But those had been the structures and designs on top, which could be viewed from the high elevation of the surrounding hills. Looking from underneath, it was much darker and flatter—though part of the darkness might have merely been shadow and the approaching night. There were gaps in the floating city that allowed some sunlight to get through, but it still cast shade across the entire under city.

The upper city was held aloft by nothing I could discern. There were no engines or propellers or supports. It was terribly frightening to stand beneath something so unbelievably large, that had no visible reason why it shouldn’t be crushing everything around it. But seeing the population in the lower city be completely unconcerned, and even oblivious, to the tremendous upper city, went a long way to easing my fears.

The lower city, wreathed in shadows, was also a pretty magnificent design. But mostly it seemed magnificently dark. There were lights of every color and intensity down here to make up for the fact they were in perpetual shadow. It felt like a giant allegory for something, but what, I didn’t know.

There was no gate around the lower city, no wall, no checkpoint, no quarantine. One moment I had been standing on grass and the next step was on concrete.

This lower city could have almost been a copy of the space station I had recently vacated, but it was far too busy, noisy, loud, and dirty.

The dirt I had complained of in the forest had found its way to the city. There was trash everywhere. Dirt everywhere. It clung to every single surface. If you brushed against the smallest object, you would come away streaked. This was a stark contrast to my space station, which had been scrubbed and purified every second of the day.

The under city sported vehicles of all types hauling the infinite pedestrians. Cars, buses, bikes, motorcycles, trains, subways.

In addition, the population seemed to be as diverse in species as the Colmarian Confederation with which I was familiar. I saw beings with two heads, three heads, no heads. There were green creatures, red, blue, and glowing, multicolored things. And there didn’t seem to be any two people who were alike. It was the most diverse population I’d ever witnessed—as if they were purposely showing off how multicultural the empire was.

If I had to guess the nature and purpose of this dark under city, I would say it was: To sell crap, while collecting dirt. Everything was a shop or store. Gleaming signs promised good food, good drugs, good sex, and good recovery from those other things.

One thing that my Belvaille hadn’t been very good at was advertising. We were a simple folk. A common collective of criminals. We didn’t fully appreciate marketing. But this city down here, with so many diverse species living in the literal shadows, had to hone its selling skills.

Not only were shops enticing in their displays, but they were easy to digest. I’d look at some three-dimensional hologram of a mouth chewing, and my eyes would be drawn to a more detailed description of the food, written in multiple languages, and then I would land on a price selection.

And this all happened intuitively. It’s like they perfectly plotted not only how brains worked, but how my head moved. I found myself turning away from a store, only to land in the upper corner, which enticed me to look back.

Yeah, it was loud and overwhelming, but damn, they did a good job at it. If I had money, I totally would have bought lots of things.

However, I didn’t have money. Or a wallet. Or shoes. Or anything other than three items of clothing. I didn’t even own any body hair—not that it had been worth much.

I began asking around with the local population, but I wasn’t sure what to ask. Starting off with something like, “Hey, do you happen to know if Thad Elon destroyed the universe, yet?” didn’t seem like it would prompt much in the way of helpful conversation.

Also, I felt I cast an even more intimidating figure down here than I had at my own Belvaille. It seemed a lot of species in the city were economically structured. A lot of tiny races scurried around on their fuel-efficient, stubby limbs. They took one look at me and crossed the street to safety.

I talked to people waiting for the lights to change, or the bus, or standing in line at a restaurant or dentist. Little by little I began to get some information on this new Belvaille.

For one, there were a ton of tourists here. A lot.

It seemed the fantastical floating city was not only fantastical to me. It was to everyone else as well. At every corner you could find people staring up in awe, taking pictures or videos, or painting portraits of the amazing city hovering portentously above. There even seemed to be religions that had something to do with the flying city. Though I didn’t question them too much because I had more worldly concerns I needed answering first—I’ll save my soul later.

And of course, Belvaille had to live up to its multiverse-famous name and provide a robust criminal element. I could spot them a mile off. Lots of petty crooks and scammers with the occasional heavy strutting around. The last group would catch a glimpse of me, do a double-take, and go be tough somewhere else.

But oddly, there was also a sizeable police presence. And these were not my space station cops, which were little more than criminals in uniforms. These police were organized. They stood up straight and had snappy costumes and dour expressions. No one was joking around with these cops, or putting money in their pockets, and they weren’t busy hustling the locals. They even had painted, omnipresent police vehicles that identified them as such. It was pretty impressive

I suspected I’d been in the city for maybe four hours and I was absolutely beat. My bare feet were disgusting. I was stepping in actual puddles of muck and grime. I was also extremely hungry. I was a hungry guy in the best of times, and my body was attempting to repair the damage I had incurred after falling from the heavens and landing on a boulder.

I needed to either find food, steal food, or make food. But food was definitely a big part of my immediate future.

I was in a foreign city in a foreign universe. Everyone I had ever known was dead. And I had no idea how to proceed.

It was amazing how the brain worked. Our survival instincts were strong. I knew I should be heartbroken or introspective or something about what Thad Elon did, but the fact I was hungry, tired, and afraid was enough to keep me rooted in concrete reality.

Sadness was a luxury.

I had never had to visit another town and make do. My only skills were criminal in nature. As I was contemplating whether I should rob a tourist or ask a cop for a job application, I overheard a familiar name.

“Did you say ‘Delovoa?’” I asked, turning to the pedestrians behind me.

“Delovoa? No, I didn’t say Delovoa. Who’s Delovoa?” the man babbled hurriedly.

“Like the scientist guy?” I questioned further.

“Science? What’s that?” he asked, turning to his friend for help.

I put my hand on his shoulder. Half my palm hung out in the air as there wasn’t enough room next to his thin neck.

“Calm down, buddy. Where might I find this non-science Delovoa guy?” I asked.



As I walked the city, finally with a purpose, I noticed that there were definite neighborhoods. Some areas had a different proportion of species or different concentrations of store types. My Belvaille didn’t have much organization. There were the Navy areas, the port, the telescopes, and that was more or less it.

Delovoa lived in the dirtiest dirty region of the lower city. The corners had piles of moldy leaves in them. Where the leaves came from was a mystery, since there wasn’t enough sunlight down here for much in the way of vegetation. I almost wondered if they hauled over sacks of rotten leaves in order to provide the appropriate level of decrepit ambiance. The alleys fairly reeked of alien beer and its esteemed partner: alien urine.

The industrial building I stood in front of had a neon sign that was blinking due to electrical shorts. The title of the sign was: Delovoa’s Dream Factory. Knowing Delovoa like I did, I could only assume such a place would be nightmarish for everyone else.

I banged on the heavy door to no effect. Calling out his name over and over produced no answer. The skittish citizens I had queried on the street had warned me that Delovoa had gone. Or died. Or something. I had merely overhead his name in regards to some event or other from years past.

Finally, I decided I was too tired and hungry to be polite any longer and I put my shoulder to the door and, after a brief struggle, forced my way into the building.

Inside it was dark. I immediately tripped over mechanical garbage that was piled knee high in every direction. The clatter and clangs of my fall echoed in the cavernous space. It was hard to tell the dimensions of the structure. I hadn’t made a detailed reconnaissance of the outside, not expecting I would end up stumbling around after breaking in.

I walked on my hands and knees so I didn’t risk falling again and impaling myself. It was like a junkyard in here, and even moving slowly, I was producing a tremendous amount of noise.

“Delovoa! Hey! Anyone here?” I called. It would be just like Delovoa to kill me, thinking I was a burglar.

After getting jabbed and poked while crawling, I realized my hands and face were more delicate than my much-abused feet, so I stood back up. I took dainty steps after carefully sweeping a path ahead of me.

I heard a click, and several colored lights turned on ahead of me. They swayed on rotating servos, angling the beams in a repeating pattern. Some tinny music began to play, the speakers likely buried under all this trash. And then a voice came on.

“Well-well-welcome to Delovoa’s Dream Fa—” it said. Either it hadn’t been used in years and was out of shape, or Delovoa was absolutely terrible at customer service. Whatever the case, it wasn’t his voice on the recording. It sounded marginally less psychotic.

The lights did not appear to illuminate anything of consequence. Just an endless sea of mechanical junk. It didn’t even look like this space was filled with parts of machines, but more like broken and destroyed hardware. At least the lights made it possible for me to move around more easily.

The music kept playing. It was a poppy tune, completely out of synch with the surroundings.

“Are…arrived for murder or death?” the recorded voice asked pleasantly.

“Uh. What?” I answered the machine. “Delovoa, you here?”

However, the conditions and surroundings made me suspect Delovoa was long gone. The rotating lights reflected off an immense amount of dust floating around this space. And there was clearly nothing of value other than scrap metal.

I heard a scraping and banging ahead, beyond the lights. It sounded as if masses of junk were being pushed out of the way. I was familiar with the sound because it’s exactly what I was doing on this side. Much like someone standing in a police lineup, I couldn’t see past the lights immediately in my view.

And then I spotted a form walk to the edge of the lights. It moved jerkily, unsteady on the shifting ocean of debris around it.

My first thought was that Delovoa had finally taken his self-modification principles to the absolute limit. The bipedal figure appeared largely synthetic.

But it walked completely into the light and I saw that was, in fact, a robot. I let out a quick, involuntary gasp.

Robots were entirely illegal. Illegal at the highest level in the Colmarian Confederation. Yes, so was everything. And yes, Cliston was a Dredel Led robot, but he was my awesome butler and the exception. Seeing a robot conjured all sorts of fairy tale images from my youth. And like all proper fairy tales you tell children, those stories were used to scare the crap out of kids.

The robot looked similar to a metallic Colmarian skeleton. It was about six feet in height, a patchwork of different shades of metal, and operated by all sorts of gears and hydraulics. Despite it clearly being a simple automaton, devoid of any sentience, that skull-like head appeared decidedly malicious.

“Your credit card has been denied,” the robot said.

“What’s that mean?” I asked, unfamiliar with the term.

The robot leaned over and pulled from the wreckage a long pole of some sort. It turned it to face me, and I recognized it as a gun.

Boom!

The shot hit me on shoulder and I fell backwards into the bristling metal. It wasn’t that the gun had possessed the kinetic blast to topple me, it was that it hurt like hell, and I instinctively fell back.

Another shot passed through the rubble next to me and I suddenly realized that this was how Delovoa’s home became filled with debris. It had probably been wall-to-wall gadgetry and this broken security guard had turned it into so much dangerous confetti.

As I shifted around, trying to simultaneously get underneath the pile of detritus and get free of it, the robot fired several more times.

But there was good news and bad news about dealing with Delovoa hardware. The bad news was: Everything he ever made was insanely dangerous. If Delovoa ever designed some toilet paper, it would have required entire populations to be evacuated—literally and figuratively.

The good news was: Everything he ever made was insanely dangerous. The robot may have been equipped with fantastic tracking systems and guidance, but the gun it was using was nearly as hazardous to the robot as it was to me.

Every shot spilled flames and chemical exhaust all around my metal attacker. It was so brutal that I saw its left hip buckle after firing.

But even still, I didn’t think I could fight this thing because I had no weapons and I couldn’t reach it. It would take me a minute of effort to stand up in this room and even a blind robot wielding a sack of wet noodles wouldn’t have trouble hitting me. I was too big and too slow a target.

As I shifted around, attempting to swim through cubic miles of shredded metal, I noticed the robot was having much the same problems as me. It couldn’t move and shoot. It could do one or the other and it had decided that shooting was more profitable.

Whatever sensors the robot had, however, didn’t include either x-ray vision or junk-pile vision. It was standing under the swiveling colored lights, and I was under equal parts darkness and garbage.

The robot fired several more times, but it was shooting at movement. And the whole mess was moving, because it was all more or less connected.

And that gave me an idea. I had been thinking of this as trash, but it was really made up of very large equipment that had been destroyed. This was steel and carbon and aluminum and circuitry. If you pushed any section of it hard enough, all of it would move.

Normally, that would be impossible, as it would require shifting many hundreds of pounds. But my lineage was maybe 40% Ontakian and 60% bulldozer—on my father’s side. If there was one thing I was good at, it was shifting hundreds of pounds of crap. I did that every time I lifted an elbow.

So I hunkered down and tried to anchor my upper body. I spread my arms and bunched them behind me to create a brace, and I pushed with my legs.

The robot was about thirty feet away.

My feet kept bending metal or punching through smaller sections. I needed to find a really big, really solid set of pieces before the robot triangulated and started drilling me in the head.

Indeed, the robot saw the moving parts and shot at them. Then up. And up. I was going to get hit in the legs or groin in a few moments.

But my feet finally reached some of the intact pieces at the base of all this. I got my left foot in front of it, scanned around with my right and got a similar vantage.

Then I pushed. I was going backwards about as much as I was pushing forward, but I saw it shifting the pile all the way in front of the robot. It was working.

The robot noticed it too and raised his unwieldy weapon to put an end to it.

I turned up the power and pushed as hard as I could, throwing in my arms, back, and every other muscle I had available.

It wasn’t dramatic. The robot didn’t get sliced in half. Or even fall over. It seemed a lot of work for no results.

When the robot fired, the shot missed my head by six inches, creating yet another blended mess of metal and electronics. But the recoil and splash from the shot, and the robot’s precarious footing, caused it to trip.

This is my only chance, I thought.

I struggled to get to my feet and found the process a lot more difficult than I imagined. It was like trying to stand up in a bathtub of marbles that also happened to be sharp and pointy. All while a robot was also trying to stand up so it could kill you.

I got to my feet first, but the robot was a close second. However, it had dropped its weapon so it could use both its arms.

As I rushed forward, the pile shifted even further, half burying the gun.

The robot pulled it out right as I reached it and we grappled for it.

Up close, the robot was not nearly as scary. I could see cheap wires, poor soldering, and even a few diagrams or notations that had been left on its chassis by whatever careless inventor put it together.

But none of that made it any less deadly. It’s not as if insulting its poor workmanship would save my life.

While the robot was vastly less heavy than me, and even less strong, it possessed motors and joints that I did not. It was able to pull and twist and turn in ways that gave it significant leverage.

As we stood up to our knees fighting over the gun, I hazarded a quick inspection of the weapon. It was standard Delovoa. An oversized cannon that no legitimate military commander would ever allow anywhere near his troops.

But as I looked by the trigger, I noticed the “select fire” switch. The weapon was capable of automatic, semi-automatic, and there was a green position for locking the firearm in safety. It wasn’t much, but I reached over and switched on the safety, hoping that would at least buy me a few seconds as the robot puzzled out why it wasn’t firing.

But simply switching the firing mode had an unexpected result: The gun exploded.

The robot took the brunt of the blast, as it had cradled the weapon and was trying to wrest it away from me. I had a hand near the end of the barrel in an attempt to keep it pointed elsewhere, and my other hand had been near the fateful firing-mode selector.

Only Delovoa would design a weapon where attempting to make it safe actually caused it to become the polar opposite.

But the results worked for me. Not only did the robot lose both its arms, one at the shoulder, the other at the elbow, but it took significant shrapnel to its chest. This was where a large number of its engines were located. While it was still able to move one leg, its neck, and several disparate joints, it was no longer an immediate physical threat.

As for me, I suffered significant burns to my left hand, and had numerous small slivers of hot metal pierce my right forearm.

The robot struggled in place, seemingly as surprised as I was. However, I was not going to place my confidence in what the robot appeared to be. If this robot had been designed by Delovoa, it very well might blow up the entire neighborhood as it attempted to surrender peacefully.

So I climbed up on top of the rubble, and began to pull the robot apart. First was its head, which had surprisingly only been held on by two small bolts. Then I began to dismantle the rest of it. I continued pulling and breaking until all the gears and pistons stopped moving.

I stood panting, bordering exhaustion. My limbs were torn and burnt and in agony.

As I contemplated whether I should lapse into unconsciousness or not, a small figure approached, entering the light.

“I have a doorbell, you know,” Delovoa said.





CHAPTER 21


Unspeakable



It was Delovoa. I was sure of it. But it was not the same Delovoa.

This Delovoa, hailing from a ground-based, planetary Belvaille was certainly similar to the one I had known almost all my life.

He was gaunt. He was old. He was a scientist—or at least dressed like a big nerd. He had three eyes spaced irregularly on his hideous face. When I spoke to him, I learned he was sarcastic and selfish and mildly sociopathic. All these things were familiar Delovoa characteristics.

But this version was somewhat thinner. His face was older and uglier. And the top half of his skull had been wholesale removed and his brain was visible under a glass dome.

And to make matters more confusing, Delovoa felt the same way about me. It’s just that he didn’t seem to care.

“You know, it’s been three years to the day since you were killed unspeakably,” Delovoa said casually.

I was soaking my arm in his makeshift sink, trying to remove gun fragments. Delovoa was sitting nearby on a bent metal chair, sipping tea.

“What? I was murdered?” I asked.

“Died unspeakably,” he corrected.

“Who killed me?”

“You know what ‘unspeakably’ means, right?”

“Yeah. It means bad.”

“It means I can’t speak of it.”

“Why? You sign a nondisclosure agreement?” I asked.

“No.”

“Then tell me what happened. I’m trying to figure out how I got here and where here is. And you’re saying I was already busy dying three years ago?”

“I can’t tell you. No one can. But let’s go from another angle. What do you last remember?” he asked.

“I didn’t have my memory wiped. I was on Belvaille—which was a space station—and Thad Elon said I had hours until he destroyed the universe. He showed me proof of it happening.”

“What proof?” Delovoa pounced.

“No stars. He turned off the latticework—”

“What’s that? Pretend you’ve never met me before—because you haven’t,” Delovoa said.

“It was like the roof of the space station. Where all the lights and stuff were. He dimmed it so I could see the background of space. It was empty,” I said. “Then he told me the Boranjame were doing something to me.”

“There are like…fifty impossible things in that very brief description,” Delovoa interrupted.

“Then I landed here. I fell from the sky into some trees. Lots of trees. Do you have any peroxide?”

“I’m not sure. Check under the sink. On the left. I know I’ve got a bunch of cyanide,” he said.

I had been about to look, but then stopped. I wasn’t going to go fumbling around containers of cyanide.

“What is this place, anyway? Are you always this messy?” I asked.

“When you died unspeakably, things got a little weird for me. It seems a lot of people had been quietly growing resentful of me over the centuries but they hadn’t really done anything about it while you were around. With you gone, they were less quiet. I’ve been moving around a lot since then. This used to be my office. You met my former security guard,” he said.

“The recording asked if I wanted death or murder.”

“Oh, that’s right,” he began wistfully. “I used to specialize in ways to commit suicide or weapons to kill others.”

“Then why is it called the ‘Dream Factory’?”

“You don’t think people dream about death?” he asked.

“Alright, so tell me about the other me.”

“You died unspeakably.”

“I got that. What else?” I asked.

“I think this version,” he said, pointing at my stomach, “is even fatter. Which is hard to believe. Your previous you had a lot more hair. Flowing blond, curling at the tips, feathered at the sides. I think you also had it frosted. You really liked your hair.”

“Yeah, it sounds lovely. I lost all my hair when I came here. Mine used to be pure white. A mutant had entirely remade my body once and that was a side effect.”

“Okay. You don’t seem crazy. But you mentioned Thad Elon,” Delovoa said.

“Yeah. Real jerk. Immortal. He’s always giving me trouble. This time he was destroying the universe. You guys don’t know him?”

“Sure we do. But we don’t really sit around chatting with him. He’s kind of the most important being in our history. He made that city that’s hovering above us.”

“When did he make it?” I asked.

“We don’t know. No one has seen or heard of Thad Elon in probably a million years.”

“Million years? How old are you?”

“Figure of speech. A long, long time,” he said.

“Hey, while we’re trying to sort out reality, let’s cut out the figures of speech and colloquial expressions and wacky exaggerations,” I suggested. “Thad Elon told me he was destroying the universe. He explained how everything went bad at the dawn of time and he was trying to correct it.”

“And you’re just mentioning this now? Tell me exactly what he said,” Delovoa asked, finally seeming impressed.

“I don’t know if I can quote him exactly,” I said. “You know, verbatim. Uh. It was like, um, in the…you know, beginning. Once…kind of…once upon a time… Look, he told me I had hours to live. I wasn’t really concerned with his story about the good old days.”

“You’re the exact same Hank. The Great Architect explained the meaning of existence and you couldn’t be bothered to pay attention.”

“He did say that there was no meaning. That life didn’t matter. Nothing we did had any purpose. And there were infinite universes.”

Delovoa’s mouth fell open.

“That’s a hell of a lot. What else do you sort of remember about the Creation of Everything?”

“It’s hard to concentrate. I need something to eat,” I said.

“Ugh. Typical.”

“I’ve had a super hard day. I’m washing out the shrapnel from your stupid robot over a sink of cyanide. And I’m on an alien planet talking to a psychopath who has his brain on display under glass. Now is not the time to be a prick. I can’t even figure out if this air is poisonous to me.”

“What’s your respiration matrix?” he asked.

“Is that a common thing people know around here? I breathe air. Non-poison air. And I eat food. And I’m hungry.”

“Alright. Let’s grab something to eat,” he said. “Oh, but first, I think I still have your gun.”

“Really?” I asked.

“Yeah, it’s buried in here somewhere,” he said, as he went pushing and pulling at the mess. “It wasn’t of any value because it was designed for you.”

He finally pulled out a thin steel box and wiped off the top. He handed it to me. I was about to open it when:

“Is this going to blow up in my face? Or spray me with acid?” I asked.

Delovoa paused to think about that. His eyes darted around and his brow furrowed as he tried to recall. He must have taken about twenty seconds to answer, which tells you a lot about him.

“No, I think you should be fine,” he said.

I opened the box and inside was a revolver shotgun. It was the same one I had from Frank’s.

“Wow. This is weird,” I said. “I owned this exact gun. Except my handles were sapphire.”

Delovoa’s eyes blinked rapidly.

“That used to have blue sapphire grips. But I sold them. No one was using the gun anyway. Those are mother-of-pearl.”

“How much did you get for the sapphires?” I asked.

“4,500 apiece.”

“Hmm. There’s inflation in this Belvaille.”



We finished eating and began walking through the city. Several of the cooks from the restaurant discreetly followed us out to watch us, though they didn’t say anything.

“They afraid we weren’t going to pay?” I asked Delovoa.

“No. You’re a legend here. When you died unspeakably, probably half the restaurants in the city closed or went out of business. They had a month of mourning. It was a sad time. You could see restaurateurs openly weeping on every street.”

“That’s stupid. The food insults are getting old.”

“I’m not insulting you—not much. They even erected a statue to commemorate your passing.”

“No, way. I want to see it,” I said, not believing him.

It was nighttime, but the lower city was not much darker than during the day. There was artificial light everywhere. It took us about thirty minutes to reach the statue in question. It was inside a small park, barely the width of a single street and only a quarter block. The memorial was not what I thought it would be.

“Is this some kind of joke?” I asked.

“No. You should be proud. Not many people—who are still alive—get their own monuments.”

“It’s a giant ball,” I replied, looking up at the massive bronze orb.

“It’s not supposed to be a lifelike representation. You know there are modes of expression other than boring realism. It’s symbolic.”

“Of what? Me being round? That isn’t me. You’re being an ass when I’m trying to have a serious conversation.”

“Look, dumbass. It’s got a plaque,” Delovoa said.

I got closer to the base and could see it, but it was too dark to read. Delovoa shined his tele on it.

“Hard Luck Hank: Died Unspeakably,” I read. “Huh.”

“See?”

I tried to appreciate my statue, but I was having difficulty. It was hard to view it as anything other than degrading. I brushed my hand against it.

“What’s all this white stuff supposed to mean?” I asked.

“That’s bird poop.”

“Ooh! Disgusting. You just let birds poop anywhere they want?” I asked.

Delovoa was at a loss.

“You know how birds work?”

“Yeah, they fly.”

“And they poop. You didn’t know that?” he asked.

“I came from a space station. Our birds were either food or decoration or decorative food. We didn’t let them roam around crapping on statues,” I said.

“This is a planet. A real planet. There are maybe…five septillion wild birds on any given day. And they produce waste.”

I looked around at the dark sky to see if any birds were about to deface me or my statue.

“It’s nighttime, Hank.”

“So? They can’t see me to poop on?”

“Birds are asleep,” he added.

“Like I’m supposed to know animal sleep patterns. I just got here. Assume I don’t know anything.”

“I find that surprisingly easy to achieve. In fact, I have to change nothing in my estimations of you.”

“You have as bad a sense of humor here as you did on my Belvaille,” I said.

“So tell me what else you remember from talking with your buddy, Thad Elon. How often did you guys hang out?”

“Not much. But I disintegrated him once. Another time I pushed him out into space and left him to die. But he’s immortal. And…there were thousands of him. More. Way more.”

“Thousands of Thad Elons?” Delovoa asked doubtfully. “You know what that sounds like?”

“Hey smart guy, look up,” I said. “You think one guy did all that? With his ten little fingers? What is that city, like fifty miles long?”

Delovoa snorted at my ignorance.

“Hank, Belvaille is a thousand square miles. It’s the size of a small country. And it flies.”

“Wow. Thousand square miles. That’s like, a thousand on each side? Or is that like a hundred and then, you know, math?”

“Same Hank. No, it’s a thousand miles on each side. It’s mostly a square. Though there are gaps and it curves underneath,” he said.

“My Belvaille was ten miles. And we thought that was pretty impressive for a space station,” I said.

“It is pretty impressive for a space station. But Thad Elon built that sky city,” he replied.

“What did you say?”

“Thad Elon built it. We already went over that.”

“No. Sky city. My uncle had a note that mentioned Big Sky City. And the Portals connected to it. And Thad Elon made those as well. Do you got Portals here?” I asked.

“Sure we have Portals. You had an uncle?”

“Yeah, Frank. He got killed. Not unspeakably, but I’m not sure who did it. Maybe Thad Elon.”

“His name was Frank?” Delovoa asked. “Was your skinny mother’s name Lank?”

“Funny. What else do you know about Belvaille?” I asked.

“Bondage-friendly sister named Spank? Your brother, the sailor, named Plank? And the less-successful sailor brother named Sank?”

“Shut up and listen!”

Delovoa was quiet a moment.

“Your former alcoholic father named Drank?”

“You need to get rid of that city!” I said.

Delovoa straight-up laughed at me.

“Hank. This entire lower city, the reason anyone is on this planet at all, is because of Belvaille. Or do you think people come here for the bird poop?”

“Find a new planet. There’s plenty,” I said.

“In case you already forgot: Belvaille is a thousand-square-mile flying city! Lots of exclamation marks. There is nothing in the galaxy that matches it. Nothing that comes anywhere close to Belvaille technologically. And the flying isn’t even its most amazing capability. Haven’t you seen the tourists? The people openly praying to it? Thad Elon might not be a big bad guy in your universe, but around here he is the ultimate force for knowledge and enlightenment,” Delovoa said.

“So you’re sure I’m in a completely different universe? Not just galaxy?”

“Of course,” he laughed. “You think there are duplicate Hanks and Delovoas around every corner? That’s what the Great Architect was trying to tell you, only you were too dumb to listen. Your universe probably sucked, so he got rid of it. In ours, he just gives us gifts. Like that spiffy city.”

“Thad Elon told me that we find these ‘gifts’ on accident. He didn’t present that city to you all any more than he presented the Portals to us. He makes all that stuff to destroy the universe. We just find it, think it’s wonderful, and never realize the actual purpose of it.”

“That’s a very sad story from a very fat man. But we’ve never gotten in any fights or skirmishes or disintegrations with our Thad Elon,” Delovoa said.

“It’s the same one! They’re all the same. They already told me they’re incapable of change,” I said.

“Then why would he send you here?”

“He didn’t. He said the Boranjame were…planning something. As I was teleporting, those were his last words to me. That he wished the Boranjame would stop interfering with him and let him blow up all the universes-es in peace.”

“Let me ask you, Hank. What kind of person or being could make your death unspeakable? Unspeakable in a way we couldn’t actually speak about it?” he asked.

“I don’t know. Like symbolically?”

Delovoa slapped his see-through brain case.

“No, Hank. What entity could prevent people, an entire population, from speaking? Almost like magic.”

“You’re saying a Boranjame unspeakably killed me?” I asked.

Delovoa jumped up and down excitedly, waving his arms. But he said nothing.

“Crap.”



We spent hours walking and talking. We continued until the sun rose the next day and carried onward to midday.

I did not enjoy all this needless ambulation but Delovoa declared that it helped him to think. I believed he had essentially been in hiding for the last three years and now that his erstwhile bodyguard had returned from his unspeakable death, Delovoa was relishing the opportunity to be out in public again.

But I was hungry. We only stopped to eat twice, but they weren’t big meals and their quality was lacking.

“I told you,” Delovoa began, “many of the restaurants shut down. The lower city used to have a vibrant selection of eateries. But after you, they all went out of business. We’re only left with third-tier slop.”

“Yeah, none of this is very good. I used to have a butler. Maybe the best chef in the entire galaxy. Believe it or not, he was a Dredel Led.”

“Cliston. He works in the upper city now,” Delovoa stated.

“Cliston is here? Robot. Butler?” I asked, amazed.

“That’s a bit of an understated designation. He did everything for you,” Delovoa said.

“But a Dredel Led, right?”

“Correct.”

“What about Garm? She’s a Quadrad. A kind of—” I started.

“She’s here. Adjunct Overwatch. Administrator of this lower city. Underhanded. Scheming. Nice legs.”

“MTB?” I asked.

“He’s a police officer, right?” Delovoa hazarded.

“This is bizarre. How are things so similar in different universes?”

“If there are truly infinite, then there are millions, billions, trillions, that are exactly identical. It’s almost as odd to find any that are vastly different. Though I find this explanation of yours, shall I say, suspect.”

“That’s what Thad Elon told me with his own lips.”

“Yes, well, it’s the history of the universe, and its attendant astrophysics, as translated by a moron,” he replied.

“Screw you. I didn’t see any Boranjame teleporting you to a new dimension.”

“That’s true. But I also didn’t die unspeakably,” he said. Then he took a breath and looked at me seriously. “Honestly, I’ve never remotely studied particle physics in relation to creation theories. There’s not exactly a lot of money in those sciences and a man has to buy enriched uranium now and then. For all I know, it might be precisely as you stated.”

“What do you study? How to cut off half your head so you turn it into an aquarium? Lot of money in that science?” I asked.

“No. My self-improvements are for the sake of improvement—hence the name. But my studies tend to follow the Delovoa Theory of Scientific Discovery.”

“I know, I know. The, um, compelling value of an invention matches how much it can explode.”

Delovoa gawked.

“Holy hell,” he said.

“Now you get how strange this is.”





CHAPTER 22


Halls of Injustice



My first order of business was becoming an alive member of the new Colmarian Confederation I found myself in.

While that might seem to be a silly step considering this new universe was in jeopardy, I simply couldn’t function in a modern society as a disembodied vagabond. I couldn’t send and receive messages or look up anything of interest—like what galaxy I was in.

Me ranting and raving that Thad Elon was going to destroy the universe wouldn’t be taken seriously by many people in the best of circumstances. And without a tele, without an ID, without a voice other than my actual vocal cords, I might as well stand on a corner holding a sign proclaiming: “The End is Nigh.”

So I headed to the police station.

They couldn’t even process me. It was not unusual for people to lose teles. Or have them broken. But it was unusual for someone who had died to be replaced by himself from another universe and need a new tele.

The Colmarian Confederation existed to create forms. Forms for everything. Forms for making forms and forms for making the forms to make forms. But there were no forms for processing refugees from alternate realities.

“Do you know a cop named MTB?” I asked finally.

“MTB? Don’t know him offhand,” the desk clerk said. “He might be working in another bureau.”

I went from station to station to patrol car to beat cop trying to locate MTB.

After five hours of searching, the man in question showed up. He arrived on a beefy motorcycle, that did not seem to be standard issue, and he met me at the entrance to an alley. He was the same no-neck, grim-faced police detective he was on my world. A gnarled man with a gnarly attitude.

“Hank?” he asked, amazed.

“How many police stations do you have down here?” I replied. “It took me forever to find you.”

“There are 10 bureaus, which are subdivided into about 100 precincts, which are subdivided into units and divisions,” he said. “You died unspeakably. How are you alive again?”

“I’m not. That Hank is dead. I’m another Hank from another universe sent here by Boranjame to save this universe from the fate mine experienced at the hands of Thad Elon.”

He stood staring at me for long moments.

“Typical Hank. But it’s good to have you back.”

“I need your help. Tell me about this city. About the people. About this whole damn universe. I came from Belvaille, but it wasn’t like this. It wasn’t a giant sky city around a planet. It was a space station.”

“I can’t speak about the upper city because I’ve never been there. None of the slobs down here gets to go up to Belvaille,” he said.

“I thought it was the reason everyone was here. If you can’t go there, why live near it?”

“Belvaille brought all the people here. But only the important bigwigs are allowed up. Still, discovering a relic of Thad Elon, especially one so important, brings industry, diplomats, tourists, and everything else. They’re all down here.”

“And criminals?” I asked.

“Oh, sure. Throw a rock and you’ll hit a mugger—and then get mugged. Actually, you’ll get mugged twice, ’cuz now you don’t have a rock to protect yourself.”

“What kind of crimes are big here? I’ve already met a car thief, drug dealer, and Delovoa.”

“Murderers and cutthroats of every race and every nation and every species. We got it all down here,” he said.

“Just how big is this lower city? In square miles. Is it as big as the upper Belvaille?” I asked.

“No, no. Nowhere near that large. We’re about 200 square miles. But we have much more population, obviously.”

“How many people are up there?” I asked.

“Don’t know, honestly. I can’t imagine much. We have about two and a half million down here.”

“Did you say million?”

“Yeah. We’re not a space station. We can grow as big as this stupid planet if we need to. Just cut down more trees and pave some roads,” he said.

“I noticed there aren’t much in the way of walls or borders. How do you control quarantine and people coming and going?” I asked.

“There’s only the spaceport to get in. This isn’t an inhabited planet. No one is walking out of the forest to visit the city for the first time.”

“That’s exactly what I did,” I countered.

“Well, you’re Hank.”

“What else is on the planet?”

“How should I know?” he replied.

“Our cops were mostly crooks. But yours seem…pretty legit.”

“There’s bad cops. Bad judges. Bad everything. We’re a lone city on a lone planet with infinite money and people pouring in because we’re living under the most important Thad Elon relic ever found,” he said.

“Are there are a lot of Thad Elon items?”

“Sure. Pretty much all space travel and advanced technology—even teles—come from reverse engineering some relic that Thad Elon gave us.”

“He didn’t give it,” I said.

“What?”

“Nothing,” I said. Delovoa was one thing, but I wasn’t ready to go blabbing to everyone just in case they decided to put me in a mental asylum. “Are there gangs here?”

“Probably about a thousand or so.”

“Wow. So is that who runs the criminal world?” I asked.

“Nothing is that simple. And a thousand gangs aren’t easy to figure out. I wouldn’t say anyone runs anything. We just coexist—and I don’t mean that in a friendly way, just a literal way. They exist. We exist.”

“That’s coexisting,” I agreed. “So how dangerous is this city overall?”

“Probably not at all for you. But it’s a big town. There are really nice neighborhoods, and really, really lousy ones. This city has existed for about a thousand years.”

“The upper city or lower?” I asked.

“No, the upper city is like a million years old. No one knows. One millennia ago, the city down here was nothing more than an archaeological camp site. It’s had the chance to see generations succeed and generations fail. And then their kids succeeded or failed and on and on. So now there are some boroughs I won’t go into without a few tactical squads in support. And there are areas that will barely let me in at all because I’m too scuzzy.”

“If it’s that bad, why don’t they leave?” I asked.

“Because it’s not easy or cheap to leave a planet. And the entire lower city is subsidized. If you’re a loser, and life is hard, you’re still probably better off here than anywhere else you could go and be a loser.”

“What do you mean it’s subsidized? Like it’s taking the place of another city?”

“No, you’re thinking of substitute. The various governments contribute to the running of the city. Not a lot. But better than nothing. You look a lot bigger than the previous Hank.”

“Really? He wasn’t my size?”

“No, the other Hank was smaller for sure. You’re also way balder,” he said.

“I’m not sure if my hair will grow back. I lost it all coming here. Not even up my nose. I guess I’ll save money on barbers.”

“The old you loved your hair. Flowing, kind of blond. I got some tele video of you fighting off a Thorgian herd. Big rocket launcher, sweat in your face, hair flowing around. Everyone starts hooting and cheering when you swing that hair.”

“Was I making pornography? Who are you showing this to?” I asked.

“Guys at the bar. It was surveillance camera footage of a fight. But we haven’t watched it in months. You know you got a statue?” he asked.

“That big ball?”

“I think it’s more of an orb. The restaurants of the city commissioned that. There were a lot of owners that committed suicide after you died unspeakably.”

“Oh, come on! No one was offing themselves because I croaked. Give me a break.”

“I think it was more that they fell on hard times, not that they were heartbroken you were gone. They were in debt,” he explained.

“Yeah, well, maybe they shouldn’t have bought a dumb statue. They have birds pooping all over it.”

“Trained birds?” he asked, confused.

“I don’t know if they’re trained. Delovoa told me there were birds all around Belvaille. And you let them poop anywhere they want.”

“How would we stop them?” he asked seriously.

“However you stop anyone else from pooping. Seems like it should be a concern.”

“Because they’re crapping on your statue?”

“Forget it. Delovoa said you could maybe help me get my papers in order.”

“Delovoa is still alive? He must have been under a seriously deep rock all this time. He’s not very popular,” MTB said.

“Same in my universe.”

“Hey,” someone called out. Two police officers in snappy uniforms were walking nearby, hands on their guns. I assumed they were going to hassle us because we were chatting in the shadows of this shadowy city.

“Hey Maxo,” MTB replied, unfazed.

“Is that Hank?” one of the cops asked.

“Sort of. He’s from a different universe. Something about Boranjame.”

The two police officers stopped only for a moment.

“Same old Hank,” he said, and they continued walking.

“Is everyone so blasé around here?” I asked.

“You lived here a long while. You were one of the original Colmarians to set foot on upper Belvaille—back when there wasn’t anything else on the planet. People got used to the weird-ass stuff you were involved in. Personally, I can’t say I’m all that surprised to see you. More surprising it took you three years.”

“I wasn’t actively trying to get here to replace another version of me who died unspeakably. I only learned there were alternate universes…well, earlier today.”

“Was I there? In your universe?” he asked.

“Yup. We ran a mission just before I was sent here. You were our chief of police.”

“All of the police?” he asked.

“Yeah. But we didn’t have that many. Maybe like a hundred or so?”

“A hundred precincts?”

“No, man. Just like a hundred cops. It was a space station. And we didn’t really do police.”

“Oh. Was I okay when you left?” he asked.

“It’s…I mean, yeah, I guess you were. But the universe was destroyed by Thad Elon. So, you know, everyone’s dead.”

MTB blinked rapidly. But he was even more grounded than me. He figured it was above his pay grade, so it was instantly gone from his mind.

“Cool. I think you should start from scratch as far as your ID goes. Instead of trying to resurrect your old files. Just start over,” he explained.

“So Hank 2?”

“No, you can be you. But there’s all sorts of official reports saying you’re dead. And if that ever happens, even by mistake, it’s pretty much easier to forget that person existed and create a new set of documentation.”

“How long will it take?”

“It takes about a day to get all your biometrics and start the orb rolling. But to get everything back could take months.”

“Why so long? Isn’t this something that happens all the time to citizens?” I asked.

“Yeah, newborn babies. And they’re usually not in a rush to go rent apartments,” he said.

“I suppose we better get started. In the meantime, what do you recommend I do for work?”

“You’re Hank, right? Are you bulletproof? Strong? Hungry?”

“I guess.”

“Then just rob some people, or buildings, or whatever.”

I chuckled.

“Won’t you cops come arrest me?”

“Arrest you with what? You’re bulletproof. Just don’t rub our faces in it and don’t do it in my precinct,” he said.

“So much for law and order,” I mumbled.

“We’re Colmarians. We operate right about here,” he said, holding his hand midpoint in the air. “That means we don’t arrest birds for pooping on statues and we don’t get in slap-fights with mutants.”

“That makes sense. I also need a driver’s license. They tell me you’re really strict about stuff like that here,” I said.

“No, can’t get you a driver’s license. It was revoked.”

“That was another Hank!”

“Well, you need to prove you don’t suck at driving as much as he did. ’Cuz ours used to run into people and buildings and cars every single day.”

“You said it’s okay for me to rob people, but not drive a car?” I asked.

“Robbing people doesn’t hurt no one—unless some fool intentionally tries to headbutt your kneecap. But you driving is like inviting a tornado into our city. I’d get in trouble if they found out it was me that done it.”

“That’s so messed up. You got that badass motorcycle and I’m supposed to walk around in my bare feet?”

“Buy shoes. I didn’t have a motorcycle in your universe?” he asked.

“No. You had a tank.”

“Man. The other MTB sounds way better than me,” he said.

“Maybe. But he’s dead. Or, I assume everyone dies when the universe is destroyed. I can’t say I know from experience. But I really need a set of wheels. This city is huge,” I said.

“How much do you weigh? Most cars won’t be able to carry you. Certainly no motorcycles,” he replied.

“How much did the old me weigh?”

“I don’t know. Something crazy like 1,500 pounds.”

“That sounds about right. Maybe less. I’ve been cutting back on sweets,” I said.

“If you lie on your application, you automatically fail your license. We have truck scales here. They have to weigh you for biometrics, anyway.”

“Okay, I don’t count every single calorie, but probably closer to 3,000 pounds.”

MTB blinked at me again.

“You’re stuck with the trains, then. Maybe only the freight cars. But most buildings should support you. They designed the Undercity with nearly every species in mind.”

“Is that what they officially call down here?”

“I’m not officially sure. Lower Belvaille. Undercity. Belvaille. Lower City. Underworld. Basement Belvaille. We just call it Belvaille on our forms. Because we don’t deal with anything in the flying city, so that never matters,” he said.

“I wonder if birds poop on stuff up there. Or is it too high?”

“If they do, the city probably automatically cleans it up—and feeds the birds,” he said.

“So it’s a really advanced city?”

“It’s a gold rush, Hank. They spend years trying to figure out the tiniest gadget in the smallest corner, then they hurry away to manufacture and sell it and spread it all over the galaxy and make a fortune,” he explained.

“Oh! So it’s like…they’re just copying the city to make money off it?” I asked.

“Not the whole city. Just little pieces of it. It would take every scientist working together a billion years to figure out all of Belvaille. Every empire in the galaxy is working on it—but they’re in competition with each other.”

“Is that why I’m seeing so many weird aliens? How come there aren’t fights? Or wars?” I asked.

“There are lots of fights between species and empires. But any place or region that discovers a Thad Elon relic becomes an Open Cultural Site. This planet isn’t really the Colmarian Confederation even though it’s in our territory. The Undercity is administered by it, but every empire is allowed here.”

“Oh, so that’s what you meant by subsidized. That seems awful generous of you all,” I said skeptically.

“It’s not generous. You can’t keep something like this private. If you tried, every other empire would just blow up Belvaille from space. Empires used to try and keep relics private or hidden and it would creative massive conflicts. Thad Elon is the Great Architect. He’s basically revered across every empire in the galaxy.”

“Wonderful,” I said.

“I’m hearing that he wasn’t so hot in your universe?” MTB asked.

“He’s the same guy! Thad Elon is evil. He’s trying to destroy all universes. Including this one. The other MTB knew that. He was helping me fight him,” I said.

“Doesn’t seem like it worked out too well for that MTB. You’re going to have a hard sell convincing anyone that Thad Elon is a punk. Look,” he said. He held up a necklace with a small, silver figurine. “That’s Thad Elon. He’s the patron saint of law enforcement, having introduced laws into civilization. Probably every cop in the city wears one. All through my primary education we learned about him.”

“What could they possibly teach you if you haven’t seen him for thousands of years?” I challenged.

“How better off we are because he gave us stuff. I studied that as a kid. I’m a surly adult now, and I don’t pray or preach or light candles. But even I know that without Thad Elon’s help, this galaxy would still be rubbing sticks together to make fire, and we’d be damn proud of that accomplishment.”

I sighed. This wasn’t going to be easy.





CHAPTER 23


Garm in the Sky



MTB handed me off for processing. Getting IDs and certificates and quarantines and ordering teles wasn’t a police function. And even if it was, MTB was a detective, not a desk jockey. Though he was nowhere near as high ranked as he was in my universe. He wasn’t even in the top twenty of this city’s police hierarchy.

When I asked him to inform me more about the galaxy and the empires that populated it, he exhibited the same MTB interests as his alter ego. He knew nothing about anything except the Undercity. And he didn’t want to know.

I tried to borrow some money from MTB, but he was behind in his payments to his bookie, having lost at gambling for two weeks straight and not having anyone to shake down in the meantime. He gave me thirty-three credits, all he had on him. Then he suggested I make contact with Adjunct Overwatch Garm.

If anyone had money, she did.

MTB didn’t work for Garm. Not really. He also didn’t have a huge personal connection with her. That was one key difference in this universe: My little army of former friends was fairly segregated and not the tight-knit group I was used to. That was probably a consequence of just how tremendously large this city was.

You could perfectly fit about 20 Belvaille space stations in the Belvaille Undercity. And while math was never my best subject in school, I think you could fit about 1,000 of my old space stations in the upper city.

The scale of these cities was monumental. I had always felt if you wanted to hide in Belvaille, no one would ever be able to find you. In these new Belvailles, it would be impossible to visit every street in one lifetime, let alone search all the buildings.

And Thad Elon had, presumably, constructed the entire upper city all by himselves.

As I moved around the lower city, I got to get more of a feel for the architecture. The first thing I had noticed, because it had been so obvious, was all the lights. Lights everywhere to stave off the ever-present darkness of the floating city. But the buildings had a huge variety of features I wasn’t familiar with.

This was a planet. A planet with weather. And while the Undercity was perpetually in the shade, they still had to deal with rain and snow and sleet and bird poop and bugs and probably ten thousand things I didn’t even know about because I’d never heard of them.

The streets had sidewalks, and curbs, and gutters, and storm drains, and crosswalks, and traffic signals—so many traffic signals. It’s like they were showing off they knew how to drive. The buildings had wiring, and plumbing, and spouts, and spurts, and doodads, and fnerps, and blorps. Actually, I don’t know what they were called, because I couldn’t understand their purposes just by looking at them.

The administrative building that Garm was located in was the blandest construction I’d ever seen in my life. I actually walked past the building twice. Even when I knew the address and was reasonably competent in reading addresses. I didn’t notice an entire building. My brain just couldn’t process it—it was too boring.

Just looking at this building made me want to go to sleep.

I think that might have been its purpose. It was so fantastically dull that if you were angry with the government, all you had to do was take one glance at this structure and you’d lose all your enthusiasm for revolution.

The bureaucracy of the Colmarian Confederation had always been something…out there. It was a fact of the galaxy that we dealt with, but never really got to see a physical representation up close.

But here was a mighty, mundane symbol of the Colmarian Confederation in all its perplexing tedium.

Inside the building was even worse. I could feel my will to live seeping out of me. Everyone around me looked the same. The people working here, the security guards, and the downtrodden folks who had been forced to visit this unholy temple of organizational oversight.

I stood staring at a building directory, my mouth hanging open. Even the room numbers were equal parts boring and confusing.

This building was the most Colmarian Confederation thing that had ever existed. I couldn’t even say it was horrible. I couldn’t be bothered. I must have stood looking at that directory for fifteen minutes and I was beginning to forget who I was and what I was doing here.

I tried to break free, to find some dispassionate clerk and beg their assistance. But when I attempted to speak to anyone, I was told to go into lines that didn’t exist and visit offices that would never be found.

After what felt like months, I got to what I believed to be the outer portion of the inner workings of Garm’s side office.

“She’s in the upper city right now. We don’t expect her back until tomorrow,” someone told me.

“She’s…up there?” I asked, pointing at the ceiling.

“Upper Belvaille,” the clerk said.

Garm was the first person I’d heard about who actually visited the great relic. She must be important indeed.

“Can I leave her a note?” I asked.

I knew it was a mistake to ask such a straightforward question. I was deflected with a thousand forms and lines and windows and quests I had to complete to leave the woman a brief note.

All this made me further appreciate just how much we relied on teles. My brief stay in the Undercity had been incredibly difficult because I was essentially walking around blind and mute. Teles were absolutely necessary for even the most basic of interactions—other than kicking someone in the shin.

I hatched a devious plan to leave Garm a note. I was a criminal, universe-hopping rebel, to hell with protocols. But there was no paper. There were no writing tools. I briefly thought about using my own blood, but they didn’t even have anything sharp to poke myself with and I couldn’t find her door or office nor any mention of Garm’s name on anything. Dejected, I gave up and tried to leave.

It took me twenty-five minutes to exit the building. Seriously.

At several points I became honestly frightened I wouldn’t be able to get out. I would be shuffled from line to line filling out forms just to leave this over-civilized institution. But I finally achieved my freedom.

I wasted half a day and I accomplished absolutely nothing. My experience had been an exact illustration of the merits of the Colmarian Confederation. If a film crew could have been enticed to follow me, my adventure would have made a great instructional video. And like all instructional videos, it would have been a towering triumph of dullness.



I crashed at Delovoa’s for the night. He was happy to have company. And, as MTB had guessed, Delovoa had been living under a deep rock. Specifically, in his basement. The entrance to which was under tons of metal trash and had recently been protected by a killer robot.

The conditions weren’t terrible. It was musty, dusty, and smelled like Delovoa—I guess it was pretty terrible. But it was still better than sleeping on the street and getting covered with bird excrement.

I sat around talking with my new old buddy through the night.

Delovoa had always been my best friend. He and I had a lot in common in terms of personal history and sensibilities. I really liked that Delovoa didn’t give a crap about inconsequential matters, it’s just that he and I disagreed on what exactly constituted inconsequential. I didn’t sweat the small stuff. Delovoa didn’t sweat anything.

I also recognized he was brilliant. In the old Belvaille, he was probably as smart as every other person in the city combined. And he got a lot of grief for that. Criminals were not ones who typically praised intelligence. But I did.

I didn’t have a lot of traditional learning or natural smarts. Everything I knew was from experience and getting hit on the head with it. Every time I hung out with Delovoa I knew I would learn something new.

When I saw people with skills and talents that I didn’t possess—and I would never possess—I didn’t get jealous or try and tear them down. If not for Delovoa, I wouldn’t have been able to figure out half the mysteries that plagued my life in this technological society. And I don’t even mean esoteric things like how many neutrons are in a proton, but how do you keep vegetables fresh and what should I do about this abscess growing on my foot.

But it was during the night’s spiraling conversation of non sequiturs that I remembered that Delovoa could quite easily be considered a lunatic. It seemed his only sense of purpose in life was to locate the most dangerous things in the universe and make them even worse.

If Delovoa learned there was an acid-spitting cancer shark whose body was powered by radiation and pure hatred, he would immediately study it and try and build one out of whatever junk he could get his hands on. And he would be sure to cut as many corners as possible in its construction and take away any and all things that might make it safe or useful.

If Delovoa had any concept of money, it must have been removed when he put the see-through dome on his brain. I foolishly asked if I could borrow some cash until I got on my feet, but he was only marginally less impoverished than me—and I didn’t own two pairs of underwear.

The next day, after washing up in Delovoa’s makeshift shower, which I broke, and using his makeshift toilet, which I broke, I headed out to hunt for Garm.



It was far easier to locate Garm at her home than at her place of work. That seemed like it should be frightening, but I’m not sure to whom.

She lived in a large condominium building in an area I didn’t know, because how would I know it? It seemed like a nice place and a nice area. But I couldn’t say for sure. Maybe after dark a bunch of animals would come out of the forest and urinate graffiti on all the surfaces.

Her building was dirty. Everything was dirty everywhere on this planet. It was a hard thing for me to get used to, even after sleeping on what was, I assumed, a pile of oil-soaked dirt at Delovoa’s.

The lobby in Garm’s condominium had all sorts of electronic locks and keycards and scanners, but I just pushed past it all. If you’re going to have flimsy glass doors, why even bother with locks?

There were forty-two apartments in the building and a penthouse. If Garm from Universe 2 was anything like the Garm I knew, then it was obvious where I could find her. I had to take the stairs, because the elevator screamed at me.

I pounded on the door and waited.

I felt a sharp point press against my left temple. I turned my head, causing Garm to almost drop her stiletto.

She looked at me and stormed inside her apartment, leaving the door open.

“I knew it!” she said angrily.

I followed, closing the door behind us. The penthouse was nice, but not lavish. Not up to the usual Garm standards.

“Knew what?”

“Someone told me a gigantic idiot was asking around for me at work. First thing I said was: But he died unspeakably three years ago.”

“I’m a different Hank from another galaxy. I was sent here by the Boranjame because Thad Elon destroyed our universe. I’m supposed to warn you guys the same thing will happen to you,” I said.

She mulled that over for about half a second.

“Sounds like something you’d do.”

“You all are the calmest people I’ve ever met. I just told you that Thad Elon is going to destroy…everything, and he’s probably going to use that city to do it,” I said, pointing up.

“And you’re here to stop Thad Elon?” she asked incredulously.

“No, he always kicks my ass. I don’t know why they keep using me,” I said.

“Then why are you here?”

“Well, I wanted to say hi,” I began.

“Hi.”

“And…you know…I’m kind of new around town…universe. Maybe you could fill me in.”

Garm was still Garm. But this one seemed younger. She hadn’t exactly looked old before. But there had been some frown lines, concern lines, and not-sleeping lines on her otherwise smooth skin. This Garm was even fresher, more energetic, and apparently meaner than the one I had previously known and dated.

“You don’t think I have anything better to do than be a tour guide for a—how much do you weigh? I can see the floor flexing,” she said.

“I don’t know. Like 1,500 pounds? I’ve been cutting back on savories. And, actually, all food, since Delovoa doesn’t have anything to eat that is actually edible.”

“Did Delovoa reanimate you or something? I’ll murder that fool,” she said.

“No, I told you. A Boranjame sent me here. I landed in the woods on top of a big rock.”

“And that’s supposed to make it more credible? Am I supposed to interrogate the rock to back up your story?” she asked.

“I’m here,” I snorted. “I don’t need a story. I’m standing in front of you, flexing your floor.” I swayed on my legs and could actually feel the floor bouncing.

“Stop it, moron. I don’t feel like crashing to the basement. What exactly do you want?”

“I’d like someone to briefly explain this universe, the empires, and the Colmarian Confederation. Where does this city fit in? Like, the trade and tech and crime. And, if possible, I’d like a job,” I said.

“And you want all that, ‘briefly’?”

“I have a short attention span. Is that a vase or a statue?” I asked, pointing. Garm didn’t reply. “In case you missed it, that was a joke.”

“No, jokes are funny,” she said. “I was finally getting situated. Things were…maybe not how I wanted, but improving. And you show up.”

“I’m not contagious—I don’t think. I keep asking people if this air is poisonous, and no one can give me a straight answer.”

“What’s your respiration matrix?” she asked.

“Is that a running gag I don’t know about?”

“I suppose if you think breathing is hilarious. There’s a lot of species here.”

“Yeah, MTB said that.”

“The cop?” she asked.

“Yeah. All of us were really tight in my universe. MTB, you, me, Delovoa, various gang bosses, Muck-Mock—” I began.

“That’s the two-headed mortician, right?”

“He was the chief coroner in my Belvaille. So that’s two universes where someone really likes being around dead bodies. You should probably keep an eye on that guy,” I said.

“No, thanks.”

“You were in the upper city yesterday? You must be pretty important in Belvaille,” I said.

“Hardly. I go up maybe eight times a year. Quarterly, I give a report on Lower Belvaille. And about two times a year they order me up so they can yell at me. And two times they ask me up to do them a favor—give a niece’s uncle’s brother’s babysitter a job,” she said.

Garm plopped on her couch, but even sitting down, she couldn’t stop fidgeting. I smiled at her.

Delovoa might be my best friend due to his strange combination of charm, talent, and lunacy, but Garm was my alter ego. We simultaneously got along great and were at each other’s throats. When we had briefly dated it became a constant low-level fight.

I was definitely drawn to a type of person: Iconoclasts.

People who weren’t concerned with consequences or appearances or what they were told was correct. They didn’t have to be the best at it, or great individuals, just true to themselves.

However, if they were my friends for a long while, they tended to be really awesome at what they did. Because I occupied dangerous circles. If you met a bomb maker who wasn’t very good at his job, you’d probably only know him a short while.

But all my old friends were people who dared to be different and original.

MTB was a police officer in the most crooked space station around. You know the kind of balls that took? Delovoa was smart enough to know what it took to behave or give lip service to being normal, but he didn’t care. Even after the heat came on him in this universe, he didn’t make nice or change his ways. He was like, screw you, I’ll hide in my basement and build murder bots to protect me—that’s what I think about your sensibilities.

Garm was the same. It’s almost like you could trace her path in life based on people saying what was impossible. Everything she accomplished was from pure willpower. She was a diminutive woman who was a Quadrad assassin, an officer in the Navy, a city leader, and the boss of a criminal underworld.

Garm was probably the most hated person of all the hated people I knew. And the entities that disliked her were powerful organizations. You know how good she had to be at being Garm to keep being Garm?

I read on the back of a menu that our personalities were firmly fixed after fifty standard Colmarian years. And even that’s misleading. It’s not as if someone goes through life one way and at forty-nine and a half years old, decides to totally remake themselves down to their basic impulses.

I was always strong. I was always tough. I never had money. I never had a family. And that shaped my personality. Quite early, I began hanging out with criminals and doing criminal stuff.

People view crooks as desperate, ugly, and terrible individuals. And some are, but what is overlooked is their lust for life. Criminals adore living so much that they will redefine what it means and the rules that apply. The suicide rate of Belvaille had always been something like ninety percent less than the nearest Colmarian cities of the same size. That told you a lot about the type of people in that life by the fact they were unwilling to give it up, no matter how grubby and difficult it got.

And many criminals become criminals simply because they don’t fit elsewhere. Maybe they made some horrible mistakes in their youth. Maybe they were mentally or emotionally twisted in a way that made them unable to punch a clock and work with the other drones. Maybe they just didn’t want to be normal—beyond merely dyeing their hair an offbeat color.

Having a city of iconoclastic, alien criminals has led to all sorts of odd population issues. There was a point, some decades ago, when Belvaille was simply running out of people. Our local economy was down so no one was immigrating and no one was having kids. Because having kids was what normal people did—not to mention the wide variety of species made that difficult.

Criminals were iconoclasts by choice or force, and they were a vibrant bunch of weirdos to hang out with. And because of my various mutations, the underworld never held the danger for me that it does for others. So I got to be around all these wild fruit balls, tenaciously hanging onto the edge of existence by their fingernails, and I was never at much personal risk.

If I had been a skinny nerd like Delovoa, would I have been designing weapons for criminals while breaking every law governing technology? I don’t know.

I liked to imagine that if I had been a regular guy, I would have been Garm. Someone who still lived in this world, but survived using wits and charm and dexterity to outmaneuver everyone.

But realistically, there was only one Garm—unless you were Hank. In which case, you got passed around universes and you got to meet multiple Garms.

“Here’s what I’ll do,” Garm said. “I’ll tell you about this city, this sector, this quadrant, this whole damn galaxy, if you tell me everything you know about the Great Architect, Thad Elon.”

“Okay. You got anything to drink? Or any food?”



Garm fed me. Twice. And I spent the night chastely in a guest bedroom. She made it clear if I got up to do more than use the bathroom, she would do what Thad Elon couldn’t and end my life —or at least try.

During our time chatting together, Garm absorbed every tale about my old life, asking many pointed questions which showed she was paying attention. She had no interest in the other version of herself except in regards to any schemes or ploys she might borrow. But on those, I was not especially knowledgeable. I couldn’t keep up with Garm’s machinations. I was merely her machine.

As for me, I had a far greater understanding of my new universe thanks to Garm’s detailed information.

The layout of the galaxy was very similar to what I knew. The Colmarian Confederation occupied somewhere between half and three-quarters of the galaxy—no one was really sure. But they “only” had 40,000 unique species. I was certain that we always said our Confederation was 50,000. But I don’t know if that was idle talk or based on any actual data. Whether the Colmarian Confederation had 20,000 or 100,000 species, I was never in a position to confirm either assertion.

But there were a lot more empires out here as well. The usual races were present: the Gandrine, Rettosian, Qwintine, Boranjame, Dredel Led, and Keilvin Kamigans. But there was a slew of others, usually based upon a single alien race or small collection.

Overall, the Colmarian Confederation seemed much the same. It was an unbelievably large bureaucracy capable of astounding feats of incompetence. It could, and did, misplace entire clusters of solar systems.

The big difference in this empire and the one I knew—which might account for the size differential—was what Garm described as “comprehensive corruption.”

I’m sure there were people scamming the old Confederation, but it was so bloated and inefficient you couldn’t even steal from it without expending more effort than it was worth.

“So is that what you do? You rip off the government as a member of the government?” I asked her.

“No. I’m not tricky enough for that,” she replied.

It was clear I didn’t believe her.

“I can only do so many things,” she continued, seeing my doubt. “I run government operations here. I run criminal operations here. I run Quadrad operations all over. I don’t have the extra eighteen hours a day to devote to conning a galactic empire. The people who do that are usually third, fifth, twenty-fourth generation scammers. Senators, Governors, Senior Life Support Augmentation Requisition Financier Adjusters, whatever. They have a personal organization of other scammers cultivated over millennia. If I tried to compete with them, I wouldn’t have a chance.”

“You’re saying the government not only sucks, but it’s crooked?” I asked.

“Oh, yeah. Big, Bad, Bent. That’s the unofficial motto of the Colmarian Confederation.”

“Why do people put up with it?” I asked.

“The Colmarian Confederation takes all the people and planets that no other empire wants—which is nearly everyone. It just so happens that 25% of our resources disappear due to incompetence and 15% due to embezzlement.”

“Wow, what’s left?” I asked.

“That would be 60%, Hank.”

“That’s not much.”

“But it is. Being in the Colmarian Confederation is still valuable. Having unfettered tourism, trade, immigration from two-thirds of the galaxy is huge. Being a member is way more profitable than being a planet sitting all by itself in space,” she explained.

“Seems like a raw deal to me. I don’t want someone stealing my tax revenue—assuming I paid taxes.”

“Like I said, the people that have been robbing the government have gotten really good at it. They never take so much that anyone is worse off for dealing with the empire. They got it down to a perfect science. Which is why I respect them and don’t get in their way.”

“What would they do if you tried?”

“These are some of the highest-level officials across the empire. I’d get crushed and never see it coming. Anyone would.”

“Alright. What’s the crime scene like around here? MTB listed a bunch of stuff and it’s similar to all the things I knew. Except there’s more manufacturing—because there’s room for it—and a lot more people. Which means more property crime and personal crime,” I said. “On a space station, you knew who beat you up and stole your waterbed.”

“The Undercity has a crime scene that’s pretty much the envy of every massive metropolis in the galaxy.”

“In a good or bad way?” I asked.

“Depends on your occupation and interests. But since I’m talking to a known criminal mutant, I think I chose my words appropriately.”

“I’m not known. I just got here,” I said.

“Try explaining to a bunch of petty criminals who flunked out of elementary school that you come from an alternate reality,” she replied.

“So a lot of crime? What are the big moneymakers?”

“The real cash is in politics.”

“Like elections and stuff?” I asked.

“No, Hank. This city, that is, Upper Belvaille, has become the accidental league of empires. Every nation has some of their highest-level officials up there—or their actual leaders! And that means down here, there are all sorts of handlers, lesser officials, spies, business owners, and militaries. And because this is an Open Cultural Site, everyone has a kind of diplomatic immunity.”

“Holy crap,” I said.

“Yeah. You used to help me a lot with the politics.”

“You telling me I was an assassin?” I asked.

“No. Things are way more subtle than that. Besides, you can’t just go blowing the brains out of rival political operatives without consequences,” she said.

“Why are all those important leaders up there? Just because it’s a Thad Elon relic?”

“Why do people do anything? Because they’re greedy. They’re here on account of what that city does.”

“Because it flies?”

“No,” Garm began. She lowered her voice and looked around her own penthouse, as if she expected to suddenly notice people hiding behind her potted plants. “When you’re in Belvaille, you don’t age. You don’t get sick. You don’t have to eat or drink. And if you were sick, you’re cured. And…you feel great.”

I stared with my mouth open.

“So it’s like heaven? Why isn’t everyone up there?”

“Because they don’t allow it. They’ve kept what it can do a secret. It’s the size of a country and there’s maybe ten thousand people up there. Can you imagine what would happen if everyone knew there was an actual paradise with an actual physical address?”

“Is that why you look younger than the other Garm?” I asked.

“I don’t know. That was probably stress from dealing with you—I’m feeling it already. But I’m not up there very often and it’s not instantaneous. But all that stuff I mentioned isn’t everything.”

“It can do more?”

“It’s enormous. Every day they discover new things.”

“You understand that if Thad Elon built that city, there’s a reason it has all those amazing abilities. And that reason, somehow, somewhere, some way, ends up with the destruction of this universe,” I said.

“I actually believe you, Hank. But it doesn’t matter,” she said.

“How can it not matter?”

“I just told you why. You’re the only person who hates Thad Elon in the entire galaxy. Even if you could convince people he was bad—which you can’t—you’re not going to make them give up living in Belvaille. If you could prove the universe was going to end in a hundred or a thousand or ten thousand years, they’re still not going to care.”

I sighed. She was right.

“I guess I’ll have to destroy that city myself,” I said.

Garm laughed.

“You think the most advanced city in existence, a perfect technological utopia, doesn’t have any defenses?” she asked. “I’d be careful even thinking dark thoughts about it down here.”

“Hey, I heard Cliston is working up there,” I said.

“Yeah, I think so. He’s like some super executive chef and protocol expert for the politicians.”

“If no one has to eat in Upper Belvaille, what do they need a chef for?”

“They don’t have to eat. They want to eat Cliston’s cooking.”

“Yeah, me too. Do you think you could get a message up to him? Let him know I’m not unspeakably dead? I have no way of getting up to the city,” I said.

“Teles work.”

“I’m waiting for mine. It sucks I have to start from scratch. The other me probably had a huge bank account and line of credit and probably a bunch of nice things,” I said.

“Actually, I’m pretty sure you were in a lot of debt. You certainly owed me money—which, you know, I wouldn’t mind you paying back.”

“If the government doesn’t consider me the same person, then loan sharks are also going to have to deal with it. I didn’t get nothing from the previous me, other than this shotgun,” I said.

Garm looked at the gun with some concern.

“At least it’s not a car. You’re hazardous with a weapon, but you were murderous with an automobile,” she said.

“So what do you think I should do? I mean about Thad Elon,” I said.

“What you’re best at: Nothing.”

“Thanks for the help,” I replied. “It’s your universe, too.”

“Hank, I have a firm policy of not messing with issues that have a scope larger than…planetary. I deal with this city and that’s more than enough. As soon as you get sectors or quadrants or even three planets involved, things get too complicated for a mortal mind. And you’re not even talking about the galaxy, which is insanely, unbelievably, gigantic. You’re talking about the entire universe. Trillions of galaxies! There’s no way one person can deal with—or even comprehend—issues facing the entire universe.”

“Thad Elon is one person. He’s a whole lot of one persons, but he’s just one guy,” I said.

“Yeah, but he’s one guy who can build a flying city that’s so spectacular, it’s become the centerpiece of civilization. You, on the other hand, probably can’t even tie your own shoes—where are your shoes?” she asked, suddenly noticing I was barefoot.

“I don’t like wearing them. Slow me down.”

“Are you too fat for shoes?” she asked, astonished.

“No. I was sent here for a reason. I’m not entirely sure the reason, but I’m pretty sure it wasn’t to ignore Thad Elon and his activities,” I said.

“You described him, and your encounters with him, pretty well. It’s unfair that you’re being thrown against an army of immortals.”

“No kidding,” I said.

“We all die sometime. If we die because Thad Elon snuffed out the universe with his godlike powers…well, we’re dead. If you try and fight Thad Elon, do you think you will die sooner or later?”

“Way sooner,” I said.

Garm shrugged as if to indicate, what else was there to say?

“My first, and second, and third instinct was to not mess with him,” I began. “But the Boranjame keep lobbing me at his head. I’ve run into Thad Elon more than anyone—other than alternate mes from other universes.”

“Listen to yourself. Can’t you hear how strange this is?” she asked. “Everyone has problems. Issues that come with being a living thing that interacts with other living things. And suddenly you have to contemplate multiple realities? How can anyone be expected to deal with that? Let alone Hank.”

“Hey.”

“You know what I mean. Do you have any special abilities you forgot to mention?” she began.

I thought about that.

“Things that would allow you to battle a universe-destroying army of infinite immortals?” she clarified.

“No.”

“Look, I’m happy to help you. I don’t want to die. I don’t want the galaxy or universe or multiverse to die. But it’s clear you can’t fight him. We can’t fight him. If this whole galaxy pulled together in unparalleled harmony and cooperation we still couldn’t fight him. So why fight him?” she asked.

“I don’t know,” I said. “I kind of expected you to be the soldier and push me along. You’re usually the one to take the high road.”

“Me?” she asked, surprised. “I’m the moralist in your life?”

“It’s not like I hang out with philosophers and philanthropists,” I explained. “But the other Garm was keen to defeat Thad Elon.”

“Right. And she’s dead.”

“You know, I feel like you all should care more about your other selves. Everyone I’ve talked to about this has been like, ‘screw that other me,’” I said.

“Yeah, because we never met them. There is no psychic connection between the various Garms. They’re complete strangers that I can never possibly encounter,” she replied.

“But how are you all so accepting of this? Because I’m freaking out. I wish someone would freak out or not believe me to at least reassure me I’m not going insane.”

“I don’t think you’re insane. I saw you die unspeakably and you’re back, larger than ever.”

“Hurray for fat jokes. But see, I care about what happened to that other me. Because if he died here, that’s some serious foreshadowing about my future. Why don’t you care about the other Garm? It’s you, after all.”

“No, it’s not. It’s a person from another reality that happened to have my name. That entire universe is gone. But you’re here. So the events that happened here, in the past, matter to you.”

“But now I know there are other universes and our fates might be connected,” I said.

“Okay. You tell me there are infinite universes. So that means there’s some Hanks, somewhere, in terrible agony right now. You going to track down infinite Hanks and help them all? Lift them out of their pain and hardships?”

“Nah,” I said, understanding where she was coming from. “It’s probably just indigestion. I get that a lot.”





CHAPTER 24


Where in the World is Carshane Mactel?



I asked Garm for some money and, like all my former friends, she was not especially generous.

She loaned me 500 credits—at seven points interest a week. She stated that was only a half-point above prime—a friend rate. But she also offered me a job.

“I got hired to locate someone,” she said.

“You got hired?” I asked, confused that an Adjunct Overwatch would be doing missing persons.

“No. It’s something that came across my desk. But the contract is highly placed and pays well. Should be enough to set you up in an—admittedly low-end—apartment and spare you from having Delovoa as a landlord,” she replied.

“I don’t get it. Is this person dangerous? Or a politician? Why do they need to hire a fixer to find someone?”

“Hank, this city is massive. It’s dangerous. Very few people have the ability to freely wander across 200 square miles of Belvaille without running into significant issues,” she said.

“Like sore feet? What issues? Isn’t this something the police should do?”

“They probably are. But someone also wanted private parties to assist and they’re willing to pay for it.”

“Who created the contract?” I asked.

“I don’t know.”

“Why does this sound shady?”

“Because most stuff I do, and everything you do, is shady. Unless, of course, this new Hank from another universe is a preacher. In which case, I beg your forgiveness, Father.”

“But how do you not know who made the contract? How does that even work? Did they send up encrypted smoke signals?” I asked.

“A lot of people want to remain anonymous for all sorts of reasons. But I don’t have time to explain every damn detail to every damn Hank. I’m offering a homeless man a job and he’s arguing with me. It’s a missing person. Take it or leave it.”

“Just missing? I don’t have to kidnap them or kill them or kill the monster that kidnapped them?” I asked.

“Only find them. If the hiring party wants something else once they’re found, that’s another job you can complain about,” she said.

“Alright. I suppose I got nothing better to do. It’s either this or rob people. And you’re probably the first person I’d rob.”

“Good luck with that. I’d give you the details of the work, but you don’t have a tele. So you need to transcribe it,” she said.

Garm held up her tele while I wrote it down. She was unwilling to let me even hold her tele—fearing I would break it or steal it. But she provided me with a pen and paper to write on. Paper. Paper from trees. I felt it, folded it, admired it. This planet had forests. Paper was cheap.

“Thad Elon, you have the worst penmanship,” she said. “How can you even read that?”

“Who writes anything with their hands?” I asked. “There’s not much information here.”

“No, there isn’t.”

“Carshane Mactel,” I read, when I was finished.

“Yeah. Now get out, big stuff. I want to eat and I can’t afford to feed you again.”



I had no wheels. No tele. No network of connections in a brand-new city on a brand-new planet in a brand-new universe. Other than a blind snail, or dead octopus, I was the worst possible detective to attempt to find a missing person.

But a job’s a job.

Much to my delight, and even more to his delight, I found Zzzho was working as a bus driver in the city. Though he told me his name was actually Z.O., Zo. It had once been Zzzho, but people had a tough time saying it properly, so he shortened it.

Keilvin Kamigans were as unpopular here as they were in my Belvaille. I had no idea why. Zo was a friendly gas cloud who drove a bus during the day and drove a taxi at night.

This city had a real night. While it might be shadowy during the day, it was still day. But when the sun went below the horizon, people went home and did—whatever—home…stuff. And went to sleep. The buses and trains stopped running due to less passengers.

Zo was happier to see me than anyone I had met so far. Even though he didn’t technically have eyes, he could scan me with his cameras. I briefly explained my situation to him and he was yet another person completely unstartled by my ability to transcend realities.

He stopped the bus, removed himself from his control panel, and kind of mildly electrocuted me. I don’t know if that was a Keilvin Kamigan hug or handshake or if he was trying to kill me.

Several passengers yelled at the driver to get back to work, but I yelled back that I would shove their legs up their nostrils if they didn’t pipe down. It was nice to see that cities produced urban assholes, regardless of the universe.

“Wow, you’re almost exactly the same as the other Hank,” Zo said, once he reentered the bus controls. I was sitting at the front, just behind the driver’s compartment. “You’re a lot larger, though.”

“You can tell that just by floating around me?” I asked.

“Sure. You’re throwing off a lot of heat and bioelectricity. But you also have a ton of insulation.”

“Thanks.”

“Not sure it was a compliment, but whatever. I still have my reinforced limo that I used to drive you in. I hadn’t been using it much because all the bulletproofing and the reinforced frame gobble up fuel.”

“I guess I’ll be taking the bus and train for a while until I get my driver’s permit,” I said.

“I doubt they’ll let you drive,” he said.

“What is it with this prejudice? I know how traffic works. There’s lights…and cars…and whatever those things and that stuff is,” I said, looking out at the unbelievably complicated streets around us.

The space station Belvaille was a rigid grid on account of it being in space. We didn’t have onramps and merge lanes and hazard zones and subterranean parking and elevated, multilane concourses like this city. It was frankly so confusing that it was a miracle anyone could get around at all. Still, I was anxious to get a car and enjoy the freedom it provided.

“So where are you headed?” he asked.

“I don’t know. I’m looking for a person. I was going to head to the spaceport and look up quarantine records to see if they show anything,” I said.

“You’re on the wrong bus. We’re headed the opposite direction,” he said.

“Can’t you just turn around?”

“No. It’s a bus.”

“What’s that have to do with anything? I thought you were supposed to drive us where we wanted to go. Isn’t that the whole point?” I asked.

“Wow. Buses—and trains—go on set routes. Like patterns. You’re on the Blue Line 433B. Last stop is the aquarium.”

“That’s stupid. What if none of these passengers want to go to the aquarium?” I asked. I turned and looked back at the people in the bus and they all appeared somewhat concerned about my conversation.

“Then they wouldn’t have gotten on this bus. The schedules are listed in your tele.”

“I don’t have a tele yet. I just got to this galaxy. Can I hijack the bus? I have this shotgun,” I said, taking out my gun.

“Not really. I don’t have a head you can point at. And if you shot up the controls, you’re not going anywhere.”

“You need to get off and take the Yellow 102 east. Then transfer to Blue 660 and get off at the crosstown train. The third line takes you to the airport,” a passenger said.

I stared at him.

“You trying to be cute?” I asked, assuming he was making up nonsense just to be a jerk.

“You could also avoid the trains, which don’t run very often. If you go Blue 903 you can transfer to the Star Lanes A4 then back to the Yellow 808 and Green 70C7 and then it’s like four blocks north of the terminal,” a woman said.

“Construction,” another man said.

“What?” she asked.

“The Green lines are all diverted by the 105. That’s why I’m on this,” he said.

I gawked at the passengers, who were all speaking Colmarian, but in some strange code.

Zo appreciated my dilemma and made a few tele calls on my behalf. He could drive, operate a tele, yell at other cars, shop online, and probably a hundred other things I couldn’t see, all at the same time.

He got MTB on the line who informed me that my plan was flawed. The spaceport quarantine didn’t actually keep records of anything, those would be in one of the many government administration buildings in the city.

Getting explicit directions from Zo, I managed to transfer three buses, get hit by a truck, transfer to a train, get lost, and then finally make my way to the appropriate building only an hour before it closed. MTB had warned me ahead of time not to try and strong-arm the bureaucrats. Not only would the police come, but so would the various empire militaries who relied upon those functionaries to operate in the sprawling city.

I was immediately stopped at the door. They wouldn’t let me in.

Not because I was a dangerous criminal, but because they couldn’t begin processing me without an ID and tele. They simply had no way to do it. Even with authorization from Garm and MTB and probably even Thad Elon, I was stuck outside simply because the procedures couldn’t be followed.

This was the Colmarian Confederation on full display. They had methods for authenticating species that were composed of acidic slime, but because I didn’t have the right documents, I couldn’t set foot inside without alarms going off and dealing with a robust security response.

But there was a helpful clerk in the employment of Garm who hinted at what I might be able to do to get inside.

In full view of the security cameras, I knocked down and stole the packages from a delivery man. I then moved to the loading bay and delivered them. And then the helpful clerk helpfully turned away and loudly wondered if his shoes were unbuckled, while I walked past the security kiosks.

I wandered around the labyrinth for five hours and was no closer to finding the quarantine lists. I was stopped by two nighttime security guards. But because I hadn’t checked in and the building hadn’t been broken into, they had no way to deal with me. So they pretended I wasn’t there.

The third guard said he’d help me if I’d help him. He had lost his gun. They gave him a flashlight, but it only shined ultraviolet light and he couldn’t see ultraviolet. Took us a while retracing his steps, but I found it on top of a vending machine, where he had left it.

When I brought up how he left his gun lying around, he pointed out it wasn’t so unusual. He wasn’t allowed to actually shoot his gun without first filling out a form. It was an electronic form, but still, he had to do it. And his bullets were still on backorder after two years on the job, so he simply used the weapon to prop open the heavy fire doors he had to repeatedly pass through.

Pure nonsense.

Every organization makes procedures. That’s what jobs were: a collection of specific procedures for a given set of tasks. With so many regions and so many sectors and so many planets and so many cities, the number of standard procedures the Confederation had made them all contradictory. Not only that, but the employees all felt their bosses were crooks.

That last bit was repeated to me by the security guards and echoed what Garm had said earlier. On thinking about it, they couldn’t possibly know if it was true. This little security guard was something like 500,000 positions below the people whom he claimed were corrupt. Those section chiefs could be standing in front of him and he’d never have a clue who they were.

But all these people believed the upper tiers of the government were corrupt, so they weren’t inclined to work hard or give a damn. Which meant they jammed open security doors with their guns and didn’t really care that a scary-looking thug was walking around the building they were supposed to be guarding.

Being inside the Confederation government in a city with millions of people brought into stark relief how confusing it all was. The walls, floors, and ceilings had all kinds of signs and warnings on them. And if you read them all, you’d be less informed than if you completely ignored them.

One of the strangest things I found in the government building was a vending machine. I ate over twenty bars and bowls from that machine. Not simply because I was hungry, but because they were really good.

My Belvaille never had machines stacked with pre-packaged food. Such a concept. Such convenience. And it offered edibles that could fit half a hundred species. I even sampled some of the weird ones, and they were pretty tasty—despite me not possessing the required mandibles or proboscis to properly eat them.

Of all the things I’d seen so far, the vending machines were by far the most impressive to me. Yeah, a flying city that cured old age was cool and all, but according to Garm, only 10,000 snobs lived up there. But how did you feed 40,000 species all crammed together and working in the same environment?

Vending machines were Colmarian ingenuity at its finest. They must have done some mathematical sampling and cross-sectioning and devised nutrients and flavor combinations that could fit the broadest selections. Then each package was categorized and advertised on the machine.

That’s why everyone kept asking me my respiration matrix. It was strange stuff like that you had to know in such a tremendously cosmopolitan environment.

In exchange for finding his gun, the security guard took me to the terminals where I could look up records. There were dozens of booths, some of which could handle species with ten arms, ten eyes, and flaming butts. But none of them fit me really well and I had to kind of half sit on the floor while I typed.

I spent hours searching, but found no records of Carshane Mactel ever landing on the planet Belvaille. However, there was a record of Carshane Mactel moving around Belvaille.

About two years ago he took a trip on a shuttle to the Upper City.



I crashed at Delovoa’s place again. I would have preferred to sleep at Garm’s, but she was across the city and I couldn’t figure out how the buses and taxis and trains and subways worked.

In the middle of the night, I caught Delovoa trying to take a blood sample from me, but he couldn’t find a needle that would penetrate my skin.

“Shh, go back to sleep. You’re dreaming,” he said, his horrific face and glowing brain case looming over me.

“Break your arms,” I mumbled, pushing him away hard enough that he realized it was best to let me slumber.

The next morning, I headed to the shuttles to see if I could speak to some people who had met in person with my mystery target. But that was two years ago.

This city was so unbelievably large that no one kept the same jobs. In my little Belvaille, you got a job and you worked it until you were forced out—usually by actual force. People were damn happy to be doing the exact same thing for two centuries. Here, they switched careers like clockwork, every eighteen months. If they worked in the government, they might switch every eight months—and not even realize they had changed careers.

I asked if they knew of how anyone could come to the planet without any record of them arriving, and they looked at me like I was speaking a foreign language.

The city was so complicated, people didn’t know or understand what the guy down the hallway was doing, let alone some aspect in an entirely different part of the city. Everything was compartmentalized. I guess when an organization got this big, it had to be that way. Everyone had their heads down, concentrating on what was exactly in front of them and nothing else.

They just kept repeating the same procedural statements over and over again: “I’m sorry sir, but if you’ll reenter your inquiry according to the guidelines, we can begin to process it.” When I asked where or what the guidelines were, they said it was accessible upon getting access—which I couldn’t do without knowing the guidelines.

The next day I visited three more governmental and non-governmental government buildings and learned absolutely nothing other than I wasn’t meant for walking—though I already knew that.

I slept in a parking garage with two other bums and ate almost entirely from vending machines.

It was pretty cool. Each street had a different vending selection that must have been keyed to whatever demographics made up those communities or worked in nearby offices. I wondered if I could get a job doing something with vending machines.

“Don’t eat that. Them’s from Dredel Leds,” one of my roommates told me.

“Huh?” I replied.

“Them vendy machines was all made by Cliston the Dredel Led,” he added.

“Oh! That explains it. I was wondering how they were so good. You know if he’s working in the Upper City?” I asked.

“That food will brainwash you.”

“Okay,” I mumbled, recognizing the man was not all there, mentally. “Hey, will birds poop on us while we sleep in this parking garage?”

“What?”



Having slept on it, I came to the realization that official channels were officially not effective. Belvaille was too big and too bureaucratic. Getting the answers to the simplest of questions was nearly impossible. And it wasn’t even the fault of anyone in particular.

They simply didn’t know.

I couldn’t make someone tell me something they weren’t aware of. And I couldn’t get mad at them for not knowing when they weren’t supposed to know in the first place. I mean, I could get mad. But it would be pointless. I’d be just as clueless as when I began and have the added stress of being angry about it.

Each one of these government buildings had hundreds of workers. And there were hundreds of thousands of government employees spread across the entire city—administration being the largest single employer in Belvaille. Finding the department, that had the building, that had the office, that had the employee who could answer my questions was impossible.

Stuff got done—a whole massive city of stuff—but how it got done was a tangled mess.

For instance, Belvaille had road construction…all over the place. Felt like every corner was under repair. But if you picked one instance and tried to find out the exact process, the exact number of fingers, teles, computers, whatever, that caused that road to get repaved, it would probably take years to unravel it all.

And I didn’t have years. I wasn’t sure if there was a deadline on my assignment from Garm, but I seriously doubted anyone wanted Carshane Mactel located five years from now. That wouldn’t exactly be a high-priority work order that you would pitch to the Adjunct Overwatch.

Besides, I wanted to pursue my new career of Vending Machine Tester and this job was holding back my aspirations.

I had no special abilities in dealing with government. Actually, I had less than average, since I didn’t have any ID, tele, or credentials, and I was recently reassigned from another universe.

Not only that, but I had way too much common sense for government. I honestly couldn’t comprehend how it operated. And I couldn’t punch it, or threaten it, to force it to make sense. It didn’t make sense to anyone, and that was that.

No one person was going to march up and change government. Government was government. A billion soldiers with a trillion guns wouldn’t be able to get a single word on a single form renamed in order to fix a typo. So what chance did I have of using government to track an individual?

The next day, I decided to try my hand at something I was good at.

“Hi. I was wondering if you could tell me who you work for?” I asked the most prostitute-looking prostitute I could find.

“I’ll work for you, if you got 150,” he or she or it replied in what I assumed was meant to be a sultry manner.

“150? Wow, this city is expensive. Or am I that ugly? I can’t figure out if I’m covered in bird poop,” I said, turning around to try and examine the back of my trousers. “Is that something you feel or do they walk up to you and do it when you’re not looking?”

“I don’t do scat stuff. Two blocks that way is what you’re looking for, sweety,” it answered.

“No, I’m just trying to work my way up the chain. So, who’s your boss?”

“I don’t talk to cops,” it said, irritated with my line of questioning.

“Do I honestly look like a cop to you? I’ve seen your cops. They got all kinds of stuff like uniforms, and guns, and shoes. Why are you making this difficult?” I asked.

I then reached out and took hold of the hooker’s shoulder. I pitched my voice up to anyone who was watching.

“I’m totally going to rob you! I am a bad person who is robbing this prostitute—assuming no one stops me! If only there was an enforcer or pimp nearby!” I yelled unconvincingly.

“I’m my own pimp, asshole!” it said.

Then it shot me under my chin with a compact handgun. If I had been a regular person, that probably would have blown off the top of my skull. It was a sizeable caliber despite having a snub barrel. The sparks and splash were enough that the shooter’s hand would smell like gunpowder for the next week.

“Ow,” I said, rubbing my chin. “Okay, then maybe you can help me.”

The prostitute recoiled in surprise, though I still held it by the shoulder.

“Are you Fart Luck Fank?” it asked.

“No,” I said, feeling somewhat hurt. “I’m Hank.”

“I thought it was Fank.”

“No. Hank,” I enunciated. “I got a statue and everything. Though I don’t consider it a very good likeness.”

“Sorry I shot you. I heard you died untastefully.”

“This city is super weird. I’m looking for kind of the middle management—or higher—of the crime world. Any bosses or leaders or chieftains you know about?” I asked.

“I try and avoid all that. I just do this on the side while I’m getting my surface refabrication license.”

“Does that have to do with, like, driving a car?” I asked.

“What? No. It’s the placement, removal, and repair of the protectant that’s put on buildings and wires to weatherproof them,” it said, pointing at the building to the side. As if I should be able to recognize what it was referring to.

“Oh, it’s a job. Is it hard?”

“Four-year training—but I’m going to try and finish in three. And there’s five certification tests that are really expensive. And if you fail one, you have to start over.”

“So it’s like spraying on plastic or something? Is the weather that bad here?”

“In winter it can be. With the snow and everything.”

“There’s a winter?” I asked, never having seen weather of any kind.

“Uh. And it’s more that everything mixes together with the exhaust from the Upper City. It can corrode cables and eat away at buildings and pipes.”

“Whoa. Whoa. That flying city spits out exhaust? Is it poisonous? No one can seem to tell me if this air is bad for you,” I said.

“What’s your—”

“Don’t ask me what my respiration matrix is! I breathe air.”

The student-hooker was taken aback.

“It’s not really exhaust like a truck. But it’s a floating machine the size of a country. It puts out all sorts of ions and electromagnetic waves that cause problems. If you don’t sit right under it, you should be fine.”

“What are you talking about? We’re under it this second!” I said.

“It’s a mile up. I mean like put your face next to it and sit there for days. But what are you looking for, exactly?”

“I guess…where are the dumber, angrier people?” I asked. “The ones who gave up, or never had any interest in, studying to be…pollution re-fixer-uppers.”

“Half a block that way, in that green building on the left, there are some guys always trying to hassle me. They might be what you’re talking about,” it replied.

“Okay. Thanks for the info. Sorry for grabbing you. I’m still getting the hang of this city.”

“Yeah…um…sorry I shot your face.”



Just crossing the street was an adventure. There must have been fifteen…hundred glowing instruction signs. And the crosswalks would play tones, spray hot or cold air, and the ground would alternately vibrate or rumble or be still.

You needed a manual to figure out what the hell was going on. And I was pretty sure no one knew where the manual was. And if they did, you’d need another manual to decode it.

I finally got over and went to the building the hooker had indicated. But it was just a building. There were no convenient directions pointing the way to local crime bosses.

As I was planning my methods for interrogating a metallic structure, four thugs came walking out the front who were so clearly low-life criminals that I almost hugged them.

“Oh, man. I’ve been looking all over for you guys,” I said, smiling broadly.

They were so typical it was frankly amazing. The one in front was huge, and wore a kind of unitard to show off his hugeness. There was one behind him who looked cool. One to the side who looked dangerous and unbalanced. And the little guy in the back.

It was as if every universe was utilizing the exact same template and stamping out people on an assembly line. It felt like lazy Creation.

The huge guy walked up to me and pointed in my face.

“Yoon bosh shangle, Mr. Flip-Dribble, fone jap the lap-on!” he demanded.

“Snoggle,” the dangerous guy agreed.

“Oh, no,” I began. “Do you guys have different slang here? That would suck. I’ve been able to—mostly—understand everyone so far. Hello! Can…you…recognize…my…words?”

The huge guy puffed himself up and began jabbering again. I took hold of his arm, leaned back, and hurled him into the street.

I was about to say something dangerous, cool, and huge but before I could, he was promptly hit by a car.

I was then about to say something about how it was nice to see other bad drivers, when three, five, fifteen cars all took turns smashing into each other, veering across lanes, hitting poles, and otherwise participating in a momentous pileup.

I began running from the scene as fast as my slow legs could carry me.

I hadn’t noticed before, but there was air traffic on Belvaille. A lot of it. I guess the air force was easy to miss because they were little flying machines with a backdrop of a huge flying machine.

Police vehicles were hovering around behind me, in the general location of a terrible traffic mishap. They were shining lights, playing sirens, and displaying digital signs no one could possibly read from the ground.

I managed to get away, but I was nowhere closer to accomplishing anything other than thinning out the number of automobiles in the city.



I liked to think I was capable of change. But I had been on my space station for…a lot of centuries. All the things I took for granted as being how the world worked, were no longer true. Little things like the idea you could throw someone into the street without instantly killing them and endangering a hundred bystanders.

Subtlety was not my strongest attribute. I ranked it only slightly ahead of my ability to perform microsurgery on blood vessels using my butt.

My usual methods were to state the situation plainly and clearly, negotiate an honest settlement, and beat people senseless if they disagreed. There was no subtlety involved. That would just slow me down and confuse people.

But whatever I was used to doing wasn’t working here. I couldn’t shake down 2.5 million people. If everyone threw a tissue at me, I’d be crushed to death.

This missing person job, and its difficulties, felt like a test. Or an indictment.

Like: How dare Hank believe he could switch entire universes and behave exactly like he used to? Or even: How dare Hank believe he could switch universes?

I wondered if this was Garm’s way of telling me I was out of my element. That I needed her assistance. She was all kinds of subtle.

It could even be the Boranjame. Maybe they were doing like a system’s check after I came here to see if I was still functional. Or maybe they were wondering if they should send me back. “Whoops, we got the wrong guy. The small-time, mutant criminal isn’t a good choice as a savior of reality. We meant to pick someone who actually understands what a universe is.”

Or, maybe the Boranjame were figuring out if they should just kill me. Unspeakably or otherwise.

I walked around the city in a daze.

This whole Belvaille felt claustrophobic to me. I know that was an odd statement considering I came from a space station a fraction of the size of this Under City and it had an actual dome on top with outer space beyond it. But we could somehow convince ourselves the latticework was the actual sky. Because it was bright and you didn’t stare at it.

But here, there was a metal country floating above us. You could feel it up there. And while the sides of this city were entirely open—hell, I had walked straight in from an adjoining forest—it still felt contained and oppressive.

If the wind died down, you’d have corners and alleyways that were stagnant. Piles of leaves and debris and dead air sitting there. No filtration systems. No massive life support pumping and filtering and squashing every bacterium and microbe that dared make an appearance. This was a natural environment with an entirely unnatural roof on top.

When I took this job to locate the secretive Carshane Mactel, yeah, I didn’t have many other options. But I also arrogantly believed it was possible for me to locate another Colmarian in this frightfully enormous city. Yet I didn’t even know how to walk around the streets without killing people or putting myself in significant jeopardy.

This whole mess made apparent just how incredibly unskilled I was as a person.

I was not a young man. Yet in all my years, I never managed to learn how to do anything useful. My job skills comprised of being able to get shot, and being a strong contender in competitive eating contests.

The idea I could find someone in this city, when experienced police agencies could not, was absurd.

But I was here. There was no point wishing I was back at my old Belvaille that was now destroyed. That life was gone. I had to adapt or give up. Find some traffic and jump in front of it. Maybe air traffic. Or stick my head against the Upper City and mess up my respiration matrix.

I didn’t even know how to properly commit suicide in this universe.

And while I enjoyed complaining and bemoaning my situations in general, with no one to complain to, it was just me griping to myself. And I was getting annoying.

So I switched tactics and went around with a softer touch. I started putting out feelers, making conversation, and otherwise began learning about my new situation.



This region was similar to what I was used to, but different. And I had been plunged directly into it without so much as a disingenuous sales brochure.

I still felt my best bet to find Carshane Mactel was to utilize the criminal element. I had zero—and I mean zero—skills in dealing with officials or technology. And I didn’t want to spend four years training how to weather-proof buildings. Least of all, because no one would pay me in the meantime as a prostitute.

I’d say about 75% of the people I spoke with put me off. I was still coming on too hard, too blunt, too forceful.

The whole vibe of Lower Belvaille was one of controlled chaos. Like 2.5 million high-energy particles were being channeled and funneled and forced into lanes and jobs. They were bouncing off each other, frantically trying to do their assigned tasks. You had to kind of snatch conversation fragments and information before they zipped away.

This city did not sit still. There were only a handful of homeless that I saw, and they had severe mental illnesses. Or, in my case, they just came from another galaxy—which was what a lot of the insane ones claimed. Except for those few lunatics, everyone else was working, working, working.

I tried my hand at robbing vending machines, but it was as if they had been purposely built to be Hank-proof. They had tremendously sturdy frames and were bolted to slabs of metal set deep in the ground. When I finally managed to rip one open, all the food inside had either been ruined, or it hadn’t been combined yet. The machines actually cooked the food when you ordered it.

Cliston was so awesome.

After several weeks of flailing about, one thing I really started to notice was all the pocket communities in the city. You’d walk a few blocks and suddenly all the signs, styles, and tastes would change. Usually, because it was populated by one particular species.

On my Belvaille, we had maybe…100 individuals of any particular species. And that wasn’t enough to build an entire community. Here, there were pocket societies all over the place.

And it wasn’t just the vast variety of Colmarians that made it that way. The Upper City brought in aliens from other empires. And they would set up their own embassies and churches and civic centers and whatever else.

I was told that Thad Elon usually “deposited” his relics—such as the Upper City—on planets like this. As in, this particular combination of air, temperature, gravity, whatever. Because this environment was capable of being inhabited by the widest assortment of beings in the galaxy. And from personal knowledge, I knew that included Thad Elon himself.

But still, there were all sorts of life support systems to be found on people. Whether it was a lotion that helped keep skin hydrated, or tubes pumping saline up nostrils, or entirely self-contained pressure suits, strange aliens found a way to live here.

I spent turns crashing at MTB’s terrible place, Delovoa’s terrible place, Garm’s wonderful place where she was terrible to me, or sleeping on the street with my fellow crazy people.

It took about a month, but people began to know me, and provide more than a few cursory sentences.

I kept thinking that I was starting over in this new city, but I had already been here—and been murdered. There were some people who had known that other me. Or had least heard of me or seen my statue. Though no one could speak about my death because of Boranjame mischief.

And after three years of unspeakable deadness, there were still more than a few who harbored bad feelings toward the old Hank—and now me. There were two instances where someone followed me for hours screaming profanities. And not just like, “Hey, jerkface.” Truly robust cussing. I didn’t understand half of what they were saying, but it was impressive.

MTB was right, there was a huge amount of crime in this city. But oddly, it had to at least pretend to be undercover. No one walked around saying they were criminals. Crime wasn’t the prime industry on Belvaille—the Upper City was. Even though no one could reach it.

Not only that, but because this was an Open Cultural Site with every empire present, there were numerous real-life militaries marching around. I recognized uniforms from a dozen different empires. Yeah, you might be a tough guy, with a tough racket, run by a tough gang, but you weren’t so tough as to pick a fight with an actual governmental invasion force. Not even crooks were that dumb.

It might not seem like a big difference, merely pretending to be non-criminal, but I could feel it. Yes, there were entire neighborhoods that were saturated with lawlessness and depravity. Whole streets devoted to criminal enterprises. But they still had fronts.

They still concealed themselves, however weakly, and made believe they were something else. It was a superficial simulation, but they did it. And apparently that’s all you had to do to prevent the various soldiers from reducing you and your operation into so much loose molecules.

The breadth of crime on Belvaille was astounding. There were millions of citizens here. That meant there was the possibility of scams I had never dreamed of. There was everything from street hustlers and pickpockets and groups selling counterfeit “relics,” all the way up to industrial saboteurs and empire-sponsored spies and racketeers.

And I had been unceremoniously deposited here and now I had to figure it all out.



I was walking down the street one afternoon when a man hopped in front of me. He was a thin guy, dirty about the face and neck, with ill-fitting clothes. His species was vaguely Colmarian with a bit more blue than average and with his ears sitting on top of his head like little satellite dishes. He held out something in his hand.

“You know what this is?” he asked, seemingly confident I did.

“No. But let me guess: It’s super valuable and you’re willing to sell it to me,” I said, having experienced hundreds of random people trying to pawn off junk. This city was all about the hard sell.

“It’s a thermal detonator,” he added.

“Cool,” I said, stepping around him so I could keep walking.

He hurried back in front of me.

“Hey. Did you hear me?” he asked, still holding the device in his hand.

“Yeah. So?”

“So, you know what a thermal detonator is?”

“Something to do with teeth? Move out of the way.”

“Teeth? No. Don’t you know what a detonator is?” he asked.

“Oh! I was thinking something else. Dental. Dental-ator, I guess. So it’s a heater? Kind of small.”

“No, it’s not a heater. It’s a powerful bomb.”

“Why is it called ‘thermal’ then? That’s heat, right?” I asked.

“I don’t know.”

“If you don’t know, how do you expect me to know?” Then I went back to walking.

He ran in front again.

“I just said I have a bomb!”

“What do you want me to do about it?” I asked. “I’m not a bomb defuser.”

“Well, stop moving!” he demanded.

“Why?”

“Because I have a bomb, that’s why! What’s wrong with you?”

“Me? I’m not the one waving around a thermal whatever. Take it someplace else. You might hurt someone.”

“That’s the point! I have a bomb,” he replied, growing frustrated.

“Well, I’ve got a shotgun. It’s kind of a revolver. Shoots two tubes with each pull. The handles used to be sapphires,” I said.

The man looked at me expectantly for some moments.

“Well? Where is it?” he asked.

“Where’s what?”

“The shotgun!”

“I don’t have it on me. I left it at a friend’s place. I thought we were just talking about weapons,” I said.

“You need to do what I tell you,” the man demanded.

“Or what? You going to blow yourself up?” I asked, confused.

“I’m going to blow you up!”

“That’s not…I mean, you’ll blow yourself up, too,” I said.

“I can throw it.”

“Not three feet away from me, you can’t. Do you expect me to hold the grenade while you move to safety?” I asked, finally understanding what he was trying to convey, but utterly perplexed as to his methods.

“Maybe I’m crazy. I am,” he added, shaking his head to prove it, which caused his tall ears to flop around.

“I’ve slept with crazy people—not like, as in sex, just near them—and they aren’t that scary. They don’t even know what’s going on most of the time. Crazy people don’t have bombs or jobs.”

“What’s a job have to do with anything?” he asked.

“Clearly, this is some job. You didn’t just talk to me for an hour about thermal dental-ators—”

“It’s not dental!”

“Or whatever. This is leading up to something. Which means it’s a job. Crazy people can’t have jobs.”

“Sure they can. That’s racist,” he declared.

“It’s not racist. There’s no crazy species. But if you’re trying to say you don’t care about blowing yourself up because you’re insane, I’m saying that’s not true because you’ve got some kind of a job. Obviously not a very good one, but still, a career of some sort.”

“It’s not a career.”

“Fine,” I said, crossing my arms. “We’ve established you’ve got a bomb. Now what? Did you just want to inform me of that and now you’re going to be on your way? Or is this some strange way of making conversation? How about this weather? I have a bomb.”

“No…you need to come with me.”

“Right!” I said, pointing. “That’s a job.”

“So what? You have something against people working?”

“No. But do you even know who I am?” I asked.

“Yeah. You’re Shart-Butt Shank,” he said.

I slumped. If that had been a taunt, it would have actually been pretty good. But it was obvious he believed that was my actual name. I tilted my head back and yelled to the sky.

“This is why you don’t use mass hypnosis. Every race has different brains and after a while it gets muddled and mixed and you end up with people saying I died ‘un-danceably.’”

“Who are you talking to?” the bomber asked.

“The Boranjame. They’re always watching. Like cosmic voyeurs. That’s what Thad Elon told me.”

“Huh?”

“Right. So I’m not going to follow you just because you have a bomb. You can’t threaten me when you’ll blow yourself up just as bad. Besides, I don’t have any money or…really anything. So there’s no point in kidnapping me.”

“It’s not a kidnapping. You’re not even a kid.”

“No, it’s not…never mind,” I said, figuring we were confused enough. “But you can’t scare someone with a bomb.”

“Sure you can.”

“It’s impractical. And I’m really dense.”

“Is that another word for overweight? You keep coming up with weird words to say simple stuff,” he replied.

“I know you won’t use it. That’s the bottom line,” I stated defiantly.

“I might.”

I swung my left forearm and hand. Not much more than a slap. I caught him in the hands and wrist. He was so lightweight compared to me I practically dislocated his shoulder. But the bomb in question went flying.

We watched it tumble in the air and land in the street. It bounced off about ten cars travelling at high speeds, and then we lost sight of it.

“The traffic is lethal here,” I muttered.

The man rubbed his shoulder and wrist and tried to see where the thermal detonator had gotten to, but even if he spotted it, he couldn’t dash across the road and retrieve it. He finally gave up and looked at me.

“So come with me,” he said.

“What? Now? After all that bomb stuff?”

“Yeah. Someone wants to talk to you,” he said.

“Why didn’t you start with that? Why mess around with explosives? Now there’s a bomb in the road. I’ve already caused enough traffic incidents lately. They’re never going to let me get my license at this rate.”

“I can drive us,” he said, as if the lack of an automobile was my main concern with hanging out with this guy.

“You have a car? The guy walking around the sidewalks with a bomb has a car and they won’t even consider letting me have one.”

“You’re a bad driver. Everyone knows that,” he said.

“Don’t pretend you know who I am or my automotive capabilities. You don’t even know my name.”

“You’re Shart-Butt—”

“No, I’m not! That’s not my name.”

“It’s what it says on your statue.”

“You actually read my statue and you still think that’s my name? How did you see a stupid, giant ball and recognize it was me?”

“It’s avant-garde expressionism. A bit of post-modern, pre-formalism. It portrays the subject as a sheltering object, unconstrained by conventions and the rigorous bounds of nature.”

I stared with my mouth open.

“What are you? Some kind of art…guy?”

He shrugged.

“It’s obvious. But come on, my car is around the corner.”

“Where are we going?” I asked. I was half-heartedly walking with the insane, art-bomber. I didn’t have anything else to do and I was a bit intrigued, despite my better judgement.

“It’s Northside-By-Dashton Heights,” he said.

“I have no idea what that means. How far away?”

“Too far to walk.”

“Everything is too far to walk. How far?” I pressured.

“Not sure, exactly. Like forty miles?”

“You were going to hold a bomb up for forty miles?”

“I don’t even know if that thing worked. I got it from that weird guy.”

“Don’t tell me it was Delovoa,” I said nervously.

“Yeah, I think that’s him. Three eyes? Kind of whiny and gross?”

Behind us, we heard a whoosh, and a wall of flame shot past. We had just gone around a corner and that was probably the only thing that saved us from being melted. While I was mostly flame resistant, Delovoa had a way of building things that hurt me despite my supposed immunities.

“Go! Go!” I urged the bomber.

When we got to his car, of course it couldn’t drive me. If I put one foot inside, the suspension would bottom out and the frame would scrape. We put in a call to Zo for him to get his reinforced taxi, but he still had some time on the clock driving buses. He’d swing by once he got off work.

In the meantime, we got to see all the police investigating a firebombing of the D11 underpass.

“And that’s why it’s called a thermal detonator,” I said, commenting on the scorch marks around us.

“I guess so.”

“This city has so many uniforms,” I remarked.

There must have been five different police uniforms, as well as three or four fire departments, some bomb squad people, traffic wardens, street cleaners, government inspectors, a couple military officials, maintenance workers, and who knows what else.

“Yeah, I had a friend who manufactured fake uniforms. But they kept changing them and he couldn’t keep up,” the art-bomber said.

We quietly watched the scene unfold for some time. The efficiency of Belvaille, or Lower Belvaille, or Downtown Underground, was quite impressive. A major incendiary device had done major incendiary-ing and it only stopped traffic for about fifteen minutes. Though one lane remained closed and everything was slow as the investigation and repairs were under way.

“Figures you’d be responsible,” MTB declared. The cop had somehow snuck up on us.

“It wasn’t me,” I said, holding up my hands.

The bomber pulled out a gun and pointed it at MTB.

“You had a handgun all this time?” I asked. “Why the hell would you try and use a bomb?”

“You’re bulletproof.” The man shrugged.

“And you didn’t think that meant I was also bomb-proof?”

“Shut up. Let’s deal with this guy,” the bomber said.

“Put away your pistol. He’s a friend. You can’t go shooting cops, anyway. He’s the one holding onto my shotgun,” I said.

“He’s a cop?” the bomber asked, worried. He wasn’t certain if that made things better or worse.

“Um. Here’s your gun, Hank.” MTB walked forward, carefully reached into his coat, and gave me my shotgun. He kept his eyes on the man next to me and made it clear he wasn’t trying any tricks. “I’m going on a stakeout for a few days so you’ll have to find another place to sleep in the meantime.”

“This is really odd,” the bomber said.

“You think this is odd? You tried to stick me up with napalm,” I said, taking the shotgun.

“I loaded it for you. 12-gauge buckshot. That’s all we got at the station,” he said.

“You got any extra shells? I tend to miss a lot,” I said.

“Firing two rounds of buckshot you still miss?” the bomber asked, seeing the gun up close.

“At least I don’t need explosives,” I said.

“Why did you guys cook the underpass?” MTB asked.

“We’re not talking, cop,” the bomber sneered.

“Was an accident,” I explained.

“That’s a hell of a mistake. You melted the tires on a half dozen cars. That little traffic mishap will set the city back 2.348 million credits,” he explained.

I laughed.

“Those are some expensive tires. What are they made out of, sapphires?” I asked.

“What’s with you and sapphires?” the bomber questioned.

“No, it’s lost revenue. Not lost tires,” MTB said.

“How can you possibly know an amount that specific?” I asked.

“We have a spreadsheet. You plug in the delay, on which road, and the time of day, and it knows the businesses and commuters that typically use it. Then it calculates the liability. We use it when we have to assign damages,” MTB said, looking meaningfully at the bomber.

“I didn’t do nothing,” he said, though he was no longer pointing the gun at the cop who was hinting at millions in restitution.

“It’s not my department, anyway,” MTB shrugged, singing the Lower Belvaille slogan.

“How long you going to be gone?” I asked.

“A few days. But up to a week.”

“A week? I don’t have a ton of places to stay as it is. Hey. Do I have any bird poop on me?” I asked, turning around.

“Hard to tell. See you later,” he said, departing.

We stood watching the police detective walk away.

“What’s your name, anyway?” I asked the man.

“Norshall. Like ‘north hall’ but with a ‘shh.’”

“That’s a terrible way of describing it. Do people usually have trouble saying it? Seems pretty simple.”

“Not everyone has lips and tongues and stuff,” he explained.

“Yeah. So…stick ’em up, Norshall,” I said, pointing my shotgun at him.

He hesitated for a moment. He had a pistol, but he did the arithmetic and figured he would come out behind on that exchange. He slowly raised his hands.

“I’m just kidding,” I said, putting away my gun. “I kind of want to see what this is all about, anyway. I hope there’s money involved.”

“I don’t know if there is or isn’t. I was just supposed to bring you back. They said you was bulletproof and I was like, ‘so how am I going to make him go where he don’t want to go?’”

“And you came up with a firebomb?” I asked.

“I didn’t know it was a fire bomb.”

“It’s right there in the name,” I countered.

“So? That gun isn’t sapphire,” he said, changing the subject to my shotgun.

“I know. It’s mother-of-pearl. Doesn’t look bad I suppose. Kind of like a pimp’s gun.”

“Way too big. No one is going to need a double-barreled, revolver shotgun. And definitely not a pimp,” he said. “We got that bomb for another job but ended up not using it. Actually, they told me to get rid of it. Because it was just sitting around and people were nervous it would go off.”

“I would be too. It can melt tires, apparently.”

“Yeah. But it was an expensive bomb. And, you know, I never had a bomb before. So I just kept it. Had it sitting in my closet for maybe a year. Under a stack of towels.”

“A bad place for a firebomb,” I said.

“Where’s a good place in an apartment?”

“Bathroom?”

“Nah. Some drunk goes in to use my toilet and starts messing around.”

“Good point,” I said.

It took another thirty minutes for Zo to show up. We watched them spraying high-pressure water against the buildings down the street to clear off residue.

“Sorry, traffic is backed way up,” he explained, once we entered his heavy-duty taxi. “I heard some fool set the freeway on fire.”

His cab was roomy, but spare. It felt like we were sitting directly on chunks of steel with just a hard plastic liner on everything.

“What’s the difference between a freeway and a highway?” I asked, trying to make myself comfortable and failing.

“Letters and sounds,” Zo said. “Where to?”

Norshall was looking around for Zo. Keilvin Kamigans were still not very common. I nudged the bomber.

“What? Oh. 11510 Montgomery-Montgomery. Northside-By-Dashton Heights. It’s kind of between—”

“I know it,” Zo interrupted, the car pulling away very slowly. This hearse was built for torque, not speed.

“Is it a good neighborhood?” I inquired.

“You mean good for a gas cloud to go out and stretch his legs? Buy gas cloud things and commiserate with other gas clouds? How should I know? I just drive.”

“Alright. Don’t bite my nose off,” I said.

“Bite your nose with what? My gas teeth?”

“He’s a Keilvin Kamigan?” Norshall whispered to me.

“What made you guess? The fifty times he mentioned he was a gas cloud or the fact there’s no one in the driver’s seat and we’re driving?” I asked.

“I should have used that bomb on you,” he said absently, gazing out the window.



“Are we there yet?” I asked for the third time.

I didn’t know this city well enough to be able to tell if Zo was driving us in circles, or figure eights, or any other shape. It was a confusing place.

“Do you think I like your company so much I want to hold you prisoner?” Zo asked.

“We’re close,” Norshall said.

“These seats are super uncomfortable,” I said, fidgeting.

“You kept wrecking the cushions on my old one so I stopped replacing them. And then you went and died unspeakably.”

“Yeah. I’m wacky,” I said.

We got to the location and Zo parked.

“That’s 243.8,” he said.

“Come on,” Norshall said urgently, preparing to dash from the car.

I put my hand on his shoulder to stop him.

“He can’t catch us,” he explained.

“Dude,” I said.

“Then you pay him,” Norshall said.

“If I had lots of money, do you think I’d be hanging out with guys who tried to firebomb me?”

Norshall grumbled and reluctantly paid Zo.

“This is a rip-off,” he muttered.

“Driving Hank around takes about as much fuel as lifting an asteroid into space,” Zo explained.

“Asteroids are already in space,” I said.

“No, you’re not,” he replied.

“Such a sarcastic universe,” I said, exiting the car when we were all settled.

“Good having you back, Hank,” Zo called, using external speakers as he pulled away.

Norshall led me to the side of a warehouse. Whatever the primary businesses were around here, it was quiet, the streets were empty, and fairly clean. Lots of big buildings with no windows.

“I’m guessing this isn’t the rich part of town,” I said.

Norshall entered a code on the door, got it wrong, entered it again. He opened the door and we immediately heard gunfire from inside. He closed the door and took cover to the side.

“This the right place?” I asked, looking up at the blank façade, as if I expected some signage that said, this is the right place.

I opened the door and stood there.

“What are you doing, fool?” Norshall asked, his gun out.

It was definitely a firefight of some sort. Lots of pistols. Lots of guys. Or gals. Or things. I stood admiring the battle for some while.

It was like being a professional swimmer and going to a new planet and seeing nothing but deserts and mountains. Then all of a sudden you go over a valley and it’s oceans and rivers and lakes everywhere.

I was like, phew. If people were shooting at each other in anger, then I had job prospects. Job prospects beyond searching in vain for someone who maybe didn’t exist.

Yeah, I knew crime was around here. Everyone kept telling me and I could see the edges of it. But like I said, they had to make believe. And it took more than two questions from a semi-homeless man for them to stop pretending.

I had yet to see this level of crime. This level of dysfunction within the criminal world.

The fact that I felt more at ease being in the presence of a world war reenactment than I had been since I set foot on this world, was a testament to what a strange life I led.

“Which side is yours?” I asked Norshall.

He peeked under my arm so fast light probably didn’t have a chance to hit his eyes. He repeated that about a dozen times.

“Do you want me to paint you a picture?” I asked. “I’m sorry I don’t know post-expression abstract.”

“I don’t think either side is mine,” Norshall said worriedly.

“Huh,” I declared.

Then I walked inside.

It was a tall warehouse, but not very wide or deep. It shot up what looked like four stories, with stairs and elevators all over. And boxes, crates, and people with guns, taking up most of the space.

“Hey,” I yelled. “What’s…so, who are you guys and what are you mad about?”

In answer, a hand grenade bounced off the floor near me.

But hand grenades were not meant for bouncing off concrete—or bouncing off anything—and it scuttled to the side before exploding.

“What is with you guys and bombs?” I asked, irritated. The grenade had messed up the bottom of my trousers some, but had not done much damage to me, personally. “Look at that. If you all are fighting over this—what are those, boxes of t-shirts?—then you just destroyed a whole bunch of them. What’s going on here?”

That was everyone’s cue to return to their shooting. But now, about a third of the guns were intermittently directed at me. Since I wasn’t clearly on any side, they figured that was reason enough to murder me.

I stood there dejectedly for some time. Bullets squashing on my shoulders. For all they knew, I could be a famous scientist. I could have jumped in here to joyously explain how I had just discovered the cure for bad breath. And they were shooting me.

The light pistols at medium range weren’t very dangerous. But the bullets stung and were annoying—seemingly like everything about this damn city.

And cases upon cases of t-shirts were getting needlessly mutilated.

“Alright,” I said. “I’ve had it with this city and this universe. You all are mean, selfish, and cruel. You can’t even be bothered to find out who you’re shooting at. That’s not only reckless. It’s rude.”

I took out my shotgun and fired at someone crouching a half story up on the stairs.

Boom!

“Whoa. I guess I better try and aim, huh? Not going to be any t-shirts left for the winners,” I said.

Someone behind was shooting at me and I turned and emptied two barrels at him.

Boom!

I must have missed him by twenty feet and he was about twenty feet away. So if I had aimed directly at my own toes I would have been about as accurate.

“Okay. So I’m going to practice with this a bit and get back to you. I’m not sure if I’m supposed to close one eye or which eye or what. It’s kind of a new gun. I had one of these. With sapphire handles. But I never actually used it,” I said, putting away my shotgun before I made myself look even more foolish. Besides, I only had one shot left.

I then marched over to the man I shot at and missed. He emptied his entire gun at me. I picked him up. And broke something.

Aliens had different body parts so I’m not sure what I broke. Maybe a gallbladder. But he half yelled and half screamed. So probably somewhere between a toenail and a foot.

“And that’s what you get,” I said confidently, trying to recover from my earlier blunders.

Most of the combatants seemed to be on the upper levels. I didn’t trust the elevator. If I got in it and it couldn’t lift me, that would be even more embarrassing. And even if I was beating them senseless, no one would take me seriously.

And I was all kinds of serious right now.

I began marching up the stairs. The railing, supports, and individual stairs bent and shook as I slowly made my way up.

The second guy I came to also emptied his gun into me. Just stood there shooting, even though he had seen that not work at least ten bullets ago. I threw him off the stairs.

“Wow, that’s easy,” I said.

I didn’t actually throw people off raised surfaces very often. Such a simple effort. It’s a limited space, so they couldn’t get away, and I didn’t actually have to do anything other than kind of shrug my arm. Then, whamo, the ground did the rest.

I should do all my fighting on stairs overlooking heavy crates.

When I reached the third floor, I started to appreciate how this wasn’t ideal. I was winded. My legs were tired. My throwing arm was cramped. And I was thirsty. I looked around, but I didn’t see any vending machines. Savages.

I guess I was just out of shape. I got to this universe and I hadn’t really done anything except walk aimlessly, talk to uncooperative office workers, and fend off birds. I’d better start exercising.

I threw off two more guys and then they all got the idea they had better avoid me. Whatever they had been battling over, they were now in agreement that being thrown onto concrete was worse.

But it was funny, every single person I cornered would do the same thing. Fire all their bullets, try and hit me in the face with their gun, then attempt to run past. Different guys. Different species. The same each time. Like I wasn’t taking up the entire hall and they could somehow push past me after recognizing I was a bulletproof tractor slowly mangling the staircase.

Though the bullets still hurt. When I was up close like this, they hurt a lot. But not as much as the back of my thighs. I was probably dehydrated. And I hadn’t stretched in months.

I got to the top and I was confronted with something that made me do a double take.

It was a guy with 100 arms. He was a fairly big guy—though not as big as me. And his arms were small, but there had to be at least 100. That was a lot of arms.

“So do you think you’re going to be able—” I began.

But I was interrupted by 100 arms punching me in the face. It was like standing in the shower with your head under the nozzle. But replace drops of water with fists of anger.

I couldn’t see. I could barely breathe, because my nose was in a constant state of smash. And my lips were flapping like speed bags being handled by a professional boxer.

I took a swing, but missed by a lot. I took a swing with my other arm, with the same results.

In actuality, I was a pretty bad fighter. My version of a punch was kind of a fast push. But my arm weighed 400 pounds, so it didn’t need to be all that proficient. What I lacked in skill, in training, in speed, I made up for in being very heavy.

But that didn’t always make up for it. Like when I couldn’t see or hit what was hitting me.

I think my mouth and eyes were bleeding. I couldn’t tell because the blood was being punched away faster than I could register it.

I covered my face and he moved to my side. Looking for my kidneys or any other vital organs. I covered that and he moved to my groin.

1500 punches, even weak ones, to your groin was not a good time. Even if you were into that kind of thing, it was way too much of your kind of thing. Trust me on that.

But even without great—or good—martial skills, I had been doing this exact business for a long, long while. I had a lot of experience.

I put my arms wide and fell forward. You didn’t need to be skilled to fall down.

My attacker thought he’d take me out going at my groin. But he had to crouch to do that. And that meant he couldn’t move away as quickly.

I heard the man grunt and the sound of a thousand bones breaking.

I took my time getting back up. Because my face, side, and delicates were in pain. My eyes were puffy and blurred. My gums were cut. My ears ached. And I wouldn’t be urinating peacefully for some time.

But my attacker was in worse shape. That had to be the most arm bones I had ever broken in one move. It probably doubled the number of arms I had broken in my entire life. He was a mess.

It took me quite a while to finally get to my feet.

“So next time you go to give someone a high five, you’re going to be forced to think of me,” I declared, smirking at the pile of arms still on the floor.

I looked around to see if anyone heard my taunt, but I was alone. There was no one in the building, whatsoever. They must have gotten bored of watching me trying to stand up for ten minutes and took the opportunity to go have their lunch breaks. Or go shoot up some other t-shirt factory.

What was I even doing here?

This all started with someone trying to dental-ate me and now I had a swollen everything. This city sucked.

“Hank,” Norshall called. He was down the hall.

“Hey, guy. I was just finishing up this punk,” I said, kicking the many-armed man.

“Yeah, like an hour ago. We’ve been waiting. I think you passed out.”

“Uh, no. I was just bored. This fight was too easy,” I said, yawning with my terrible thespian skills.

“Well come on, then,” he said.

I staggered down the hall and rested against the wall for a minute, pretending I was adjusting the back of my pants.

This passage was at the top of the building and it seemed to extend outside its dimensions. It must have connected to the next building, maybe going across the street.

Norshall opened the heavy door at the end of the hall and held it for me. Which was very courteous. And thus, a really bad sign considering he was an art-critic, road-bombing criminal.

But I wasn’t in the mood to play coy or even cautious. I headed in. How much worse could my life get, anyway?

The room I entered was quite spacious. It must have been some auxiliary storage or meeting room or some other nicety the builders envisioned and which had been repurposed for low-IQ criminals.

There were about a dozen armed aliens inside, many wearing complex life support. Lots of boxes and crates and tarps. And at the far end “sat” what was clearly the boss. He was upside down.

Everything about him was flipped. His head was a foot above the floor with his feet far above him. His chair was essentially some monkey bars that he had his legs wrapped around. What was most ridiculous was that he was behind a big desk.

I’m not sure why bosses felt they needed desks. Like they were moonlighting as accountants and they had manual adding machines stashed in the corner for when no one was looking. It was some throwback to corporate history we couldn’t shake.

But this guy was even more nonsensical because the desk was upside down as well. If he put anything on the desk, it would immediately fall to the floor. He would have to tape everything down or use lots of magnets. But he pressed his arms nonchalantly on that desk—I wouldn’t say he “rested,” because gravity was forcing them away, so he had to use active muscles to hold that position.

It was meant to impress or intimidate, but it was foolish.

“Hank! You know how long I’ve been waiting for you?” the upside-down boss asked.

“I was just resting my eyes and lost track of time,” I answered.

“When you died unspeakably, I told people: ‘Just watch. He’ll be back. Hank is like a bad venereal disease. You can’t ever get rid of him completely.’”

“Yeah. I’m a permanent cautionary tale about bad life choices,” I said, picking up on the disease theme.

“What?” he asked, annoyed I messed up his speech.

“Nothing. Go on.”

“Everyone was like, ‘You can’t kill Hank. Any weapon big enough to hurt him will end up killing you. And if you use it far away, you’ll never get a clear shot.’”

“I’m all kinds of perplexing,” I said, just to move this along.

“Hah. You were. But not anymore,” he said, nodding his head.

I stood there. Sniffed. Looked around.

“I nodded,” the boss said. “Get the—take the thing off.”

“Oh, I can’t see from this angle,” one of the thugs replied.

“Then move!” the boss shouted.

“You should probably like, nod your foot instead,” I suggested.

“Shut up!”

Clearly, being upside down in a right-side world was a sore point with the boss. Probably a major impetus for him being who he was. He must have weird circulation. Or all his blood would be in his head and hands.

The thug pulled off one of the tarps and there was a massive, high-tech cannon sitting in the corner.

“Behold! 255 millimeter, electromagnetic howitzer! No exhaust. No blowback. No splash. No recoil. I call it, the ‘Hank Smasher,’” the boss declared.

The heavy door closed and locked behind me. If there was any other way out of this room, I didn’t see it.

“So you pulled me all the way across this dumb city, scorched a freeway, had a roving t-shirt fight, and lured me in here, just so you could shoot me?” I asked.

“To kill you,” he clarified.

“So that gun…will it like, hit me and give me a heart attack? Or will it hit me and blow me into twenty pieces?” I asked.

“It will blow you into a million pieces,” the boss laughed.

“Yeah, I kind of figured. I got a few points. Um, I want to make sure I say them in the right order. I just kind of woke up, so I’m still a bit groggy. But hold off for a second,” I stated.

“You can’t talk your way out of this one. I’ve been waiting for this for years,” the boss said.

“Alright. So my bones are basically like, depleted uranium in terms of density and weight. My muscles—some of them—are as thick as tungsten. My organs are like steel—and I’m not embarrassed to say the amount of fiber I have to take in to keep me regular would probably be fatal to a midsized dinosaur.”

“I just told you this is 255 millimeter. You’re bulletproof. You’re not Hank Smasher-proof,” the boss said.

“I know. You’re right. That would blow me into itsy-bitsy pieces.”

I could see all the thugs were feeling good about that. The boss was practically tapping his feet in the air.

“But, you know, then I become shrapnel,” I said.

“What are you talking about?” he asked.

“Sure, no fire or exhaust shoots out of that electro-gun that can hurt you all in this enclosed room. But me getting blown to a ‘million’ pieces will. If my bones and teeth and muscles go flying in every direction, you all are going to get ripped apart, too,” I explained.

“That’s…not…” the boss said.

“Let me put a hypothetical to you: if you got enough firepower to blow an armored car into a million pieces, and you’re standing five, ten feet away from that armored car when it happens, do you think you’re going to be doing a celebration dance immediately afterwards? Or do you think those armored car fragments are going to slice you to ribbons?” I asked.

And suddenly, the room was a lot less confident.

“Yeah, it’s a big gun. Nice gun. It might be all kinds of deadly. But the trick in killing me isn’t just overwhelming firepower and surviving that overwhelming firepower. It’s surviving 5,000 pounds of Hank-parts flying everywhere. There’s an ultra-specific set of circumstances required to kill me and not get killed in the process. Which is why I’m still around,” I continued.

“I…don’t care,” the boss said, though he wasn’t very convincing.

“You might not. But I’m betting everyone else in here does. The guy operating that gun, for instance. Does everyone else in here hate me so much you don’t mind dying in order to kill me?” I asked.

No one raised their appendages or seemed enthusiastic.

“So just wait a minute. Obviously, you don’t like me,” I said.

“I hate you,” the boss clarified.

“No, you don’t. You hate the other Hank. The one who died unspeakably. That isn’t me,” I replied.

“Yeah, right. You go away for a few years and we’re supposed to believe you’re actually your twin brother? You look exactly the same. Little…bigger. Little…balder,” he added.

“You can’t even talk about how I died. Do you think I’m doing that? Me? With my magic powers? A Boranjame killed the Hank in this universe. Then he made you unable to talk about it. Then a Boranjame sent me here from a different universe—which is how I can talk about it and why I’m different. Whatever grief you had with that other Hank, well, good news: He’s dead. You can keep fighting the same fight with me, even though I don’t know your name, never seen you—any of you—in my life, or we can start from scratch. I’m an alternate-reality Hank and I just got to this universe.”

“I figured it was something like that,” the boss said.

“How is it that no one is impressed by those details?” I asked.

Even though I was no longer in immediate physical danger, I was really upset. I had bridged realities and replaced my doppelganger and despite that being a history-making event, it didn’t interest anyone.

“I got more important things to worry about than particle physics theories,” the boss said.

“Like big-ass guns?” I asked. “And t-shirts.”

“They aren’t merely t-shirts. That’s only…So you’re looking for someone named Carshane Mactel?” he asked.

“Yeah. I guess. But I’m starting to believe it’s all a crazy Boranjame game. They do stuff like this all the time. When they aren’t busy yanking me around,” I said.

“When I learned you were back—or not back, but different—and looking for someone, I had my people do some digging. Figured it must be important,” he said. Then he nodded to the side.

“Should I shoot him?” the thug by the cannon asked.

“What? No. I was just nodding for you to give him the information,” the boss said.

“How am I supposed to know that with a nod? You want me to take off the sheet with a nod and then—” the thug began.

“Just get it! Turn that thing off before you kill us,” he added.

The cannon, which had been emitting a low bass hum I hadn’t quite noticed, shut off. Stupid gun must have cost a fortune and it was entirely pointless.

“There’s no record of Carshane Mactel coming. And they only went through four doors and took a shuttle Topside. Nothing past that. This was two years ago,” the boss read, once he was handed the report.

“Which doors?” I asked.

“Government buildings. So if he had a fake ID, it had to be incredibly good,” he said.

“Could he fake access to the Upper City?” I asked.

“Hah. No. Thad Elon made that place. If you’re not allowed up there, you won’t ever reach it.”

“And that’s all you got?” I asked.

“That’s all there is,” the boss replied.

“Yeah. This must be a Boranjame scam. Forget it. I’m going to move on,” I said.

“To what?” the boss asked, squinting.

“I don’t know. Uh, I’m looking for work. Are you hiring? That is, if you’re okay with not shooting me with a howitzer,” I said.





CHAPTER 25


Gax



Even though I was tired and dirty and out of adjectives, I decided to go tell Garm to her face there was nothing to find. Maybe I could get a partial fee for all the time I spent searching for Carshane Mactel. I had some info, just not a lot.

There were about three hours left in the business day, but I didn’t want to sit around all night waiting for her to come home like some lovesick teenager. I just wanted to relay the news, then go find a public fountain I could swim around in and clean up.

Her office was still a super-duper government office and I still couldn’t get in. But like everything in the Colmarian Confederation, it didn’t take much imagination to bypass their security.

I went to the first security station, where I was halted. I explained I left my badge and ID and tele and everything else at home. So then I was routed directly around security to the front desk where they were supposed to confirm everything through alternative methods and give me a temporary pass.

And as I approached, I waved, and walked on by.

“Excuse me, sir. Sir? Sir?” they stammered.

I had about ten to fifteen minutes before I was escorted out by armed guards. Because the front desk wasn’t security. That wasn’t their job. They had to fill out a form to notify security, who wasn’t even the door security, who escorted me in, but a different security. The front door still had to watch the front door despite dangerous morons wandering around.

Anyway, as long as I didn’t get too lost, I should have enough time.

I got lost. But I heard Garm yelling at the incompetent fools around her and I followed the trail of her momentous frustration.

“Hey,” I said to her.

“What are you doing here?” she asked.

“I came to tell you about the thing you wanted me to do. He’s not here,” I said. “And it’s questionable if he was here at all.”

“Hold it right there!” someone yelled.

“Wow, that was fast,” I said. I instinctively looked at my tele to see how much time elapsed, but remembered I didn’t own one.

“Put your hands where we can see them!” the guard said to me.

I looked at my hands, which were all alone in the wide-open space.

“Can you not see them now?” I asked.

“I can’t speak about it,” he replied.

I laughed. That was an insane response even for the Confederation.

“Did you hear that?” I asked Garm.

“I can’t speak about it,” she replied, not looking at me.

And one by one, everyone in the office turned and walked away. They didn’t pack their things or hurry or make a big deal about it. Some had headphones on, had been in the process of eating, were still connected to their computers or life support via wires and tubes, some bumped into walls a few times, but they all eventually filed out over the course of a couple minutes.

“Greetings, Hank,” a vaguely masculine voice said.

Behind me, a glowing, seemingly five-dimensional crystal floated in the air. It was hard to describe because I think to do so would require advanced mathematics.

But imagine the prettiest gemstone you ever saw, make it the size of a small car, put it two feet off the ground, have it continuously fold in and around itself and violate every law of nature, all the while putting off multicolored light at precisely the right intensity to hurt your eyes.

“Hi,” I muttered, never enjoying my encounters with Boranjame. “I guess you unspeakably removed everyone in the building.”

“Not everyone. You remain.”

“Yeah.”

“You were endeavoring to locate Carshane Mactel,” he stated. He didn’t need to ask questions. He already knew.

“Not any more. I guess you were behind that?”

“It was I who contacted Adjunct Overwatch Garm in order to facilitate the investigation.”

“Just curious, how much did you pay her?”

“Pay?”

“Forget it,” I said, realizing the Boranjame had probably done something similar to this. “Did that person exist at all?”

“Most certainly he did. And does.”

“He’s still here? Why did you want him found? Couldn’t you just…zap him yourself?” I asked.

“I was…” And the Boranjame paused a long while. Which was unusual since they weren’t the kind of demigods who needed to collect their thoughts. “Impressed that you had deduced it was all a test.”

“So are you the one who brought me to this universe?” I asked the Boranjame, who remained casually bobbing and oscillating fifteen feet away.

Normally, Boranjame could not, as far as I knew, speak normally. Considering they had no primitive features such as mouths, vocal cords, or what people broadly considered biological bodies. However, this creature “spoke” somehow.

“No. Against my wishes, it was my counterpart, The Marquor of Lunacy, Gax, the Unfathomable and Disreputable, that transported you here.”

“I see,” I said conversationally. Like I swapped universes all the time and it was no big deal. “So who exactly are you?”

“I am His Most Ravenous Indignation, Gax, the Unforgiving. I am the one who killed your predecessor unspeakably,” he replied.

“Ah. Well, I’ve taken enough of your time. Thanks for the mission and such. It was a lot of fun and very rewarding. I’ll just show myself out,” I said, looking for the quickest escape route.

“There are issues that must be elucidated, first,” he said.

“Are you…are you going to tell me a bunch of stuff I can’t understand and then kill me? Because I can do without both of those events, but if I’m going to die, I’d really prefer not to be in a state of befuddlement,” I replied.

“I have no immediate plans for your elimination. Though I allocate to myself the option, if cause should arise, or the desire take hold.”

“And the confusion begins. I’m just going to sit down, if you don’t mind. Been on my feet chasing phantoms for a while,” I said.

I went to the wall and slid down. I was careful not to put too much weight against it, lest I fall through.

Some people had a big issue about dying on their feet, or dying in bed, or dying with their boots on, or hat off, or on a weekday. But dead was dead. While I was alive, however, I was going to damn well be as comfortable as possible while awaiting the whims of a space god, with a scary name, who had personal experience with killing Hanks.

“Carshane Mactel arrived here and went about his enterprise. No one paid him much more than cursory attention. And his efforts were undisturbed.”

“So who is he?” I asked.

“He is the First and Last. The one you refer to as Thad Elon,” Gax said.

“You have me chasing Thad Elon?”

“He has departed. I was curious to see if you could acquire any details of his visit. And you performed…better than I supposed.”

“I didn’t find out much.”

“No. But this is a population that, in some measure, worships Thad Elon. They live under his work and endeavor to unravel his accomplishments. Yet no one was aware of him operating amongst them.”

“What was he doing? Just visiting? Taking a holiday?”

“His activities were focused in the manner in which they always are: he was concerned with furthering the destruction of this universe.”

I couldn’t help but snort.

“I don’t understand how you all expect me to deal with that. You knew exactly what he was doing, right? Why didn’t you stop him?” I asked.

“This was not about Thad Elon. I was merely deciding whether I should terminate you,” he said.

“Well? Did I pass? Because if I didn’t, let’s get going. I’m hungry and tired, I don’t have a place to sleep, and I’m frankly a bit fed up with being treated like a giant sock puppet,” I said.

“I must explain how you came to be here: My relation in your previous universe, Gax, sacrificed himself in order to dispatch you to this universe.”

“He did? I thought the Boranjame escaped.”

“Not all. I was appraised that Gax wished to send you here and I was against it. I feel that Thad Elon cannot be stopped, by you or anyone.”

“Well, that’s depressing.”

“But Gax was insistent. To dissuade him, I destroyed the Hank that already existed in this universe. But Gax was not deterred. He gave his own life to transport you. I could not allow that oblation to go unexamined. Hence the test. If there is so blunt an outcome as pass and fail, then you have…passed.”

I didn’t realize I’d been holding my breath, but I exhaled strong enough I’m surprised I didn’t send Scary Gax flying down the hall.

“You had spoken to the First and Last before you arrived,” he continued. “He stated many things that were true and some that were false.”

“Do you want me to guess which? I have to admit, I don’t remember all that much. Once I learned the universe was ending, I kind of stopped paying attention to long speeches.”

“The many Thad Elons are destroying the multiverse with the purpose of ending everything,” he said.

“Then I guess it will just be you. And don’t mess up this time,” I said, wagging a finger. I know it wasn’t prudent to be flippant to the guy who had already killed one Hank, but I felt these conversations were so far beyond me that I had little to add except occasional sarcasm and flatulence.

“While it is Thad Elon’s belief that we will return to the original state of creation, that is hardly certain. If there will exist a lone Boranjame after his works are finished, it will not be me. I am nothing like that being, having lived a separate life with separate experiences. I am not even similar to the Gax you were previously familiar with.”

“Yeah, his name was a lot less off-putting. Is it random you guys have the same name? Or part of the same name? Was he like your brother?”

“All Boranjame are splintered isotopes of the original. We all share the same mind.”

“What?” I asked. “I’ve met a number of you now and you seem to have really different personalities.”

“We share the same mind in that, across the multiverse, we can see what others see, and communicate. What you have perceived to be our ability to view the future is merely a Boranjame looking at the experiences of countless universes—some of which are only different by the orientation of a single atom,” he said.

I gawked.

“So right now you can see across infinite universes?” I asked.

“That was one area in which Thad Elon was not correct when he spoke to you. There are vast numbers of universes. Numbers you cannot possibly fathom. But they are not infinite. Which is why, I believe, Thad Elon will ultimately destroy them all. If there were infinite universes, he could never hope to remove them. But there are not,” he said.

“Then I guess we all die. I can’t think Thad Elon would stop, even if he knew that.”

“No, he will not stop. But I also conclude we will not return to that primordial first state. It is my opinion, shared by many of my counterparts, that if Thad Elon were to succeed, there would be everlasting nothingness.”

“No one can complain about that! Because…there won’t be anyone to complain,” I said ruefully.

“That is correct. I expect Thad Elon will succeed. My species has doomed us and there is no hope to the contrary.”

“Bet the other Boranjame don’t invite you to many parties. But if what you say is true, why bring me here? Or that other Gax? If nothing matters, why do any of that stuff?”

“What Thad Elon said about us is true. Any great activity we take has terrible consequences for the universe. We are, in that manner, like stones in a pond.”

“Uh…wet? I’ve never seen a pond,” I said.

“No, Hank. Our actions create ripples that cannot be predicted. You have witnessed this, or heard details of such, in the past.”

“So killing that other Hank doesn’t count as a ‘great activity’?” I accused.

“No, it does not.”

I slouched at that.

“Okay. But I don’t understand what this has to do with me. I’m just a guy. Not very smart. Not very athletic. Not very anything,” I said.

“My brethren know that we cannot personally deal with Thad Elon. We must limit our direct involvement lest we make matters even worse. They use proxies to act on their behalf.”

“So I am a sock puppet,” I said morosely.

“You are a mutant.”

“So? So are a lot of people. I’m heavy—dense. How the hell do you think that competes with a guy who can’t be killed? And, like, fish mutate. All animals mutate,” I said.

“‘Mutant’ is merely the unfortunate word that was chosen. The evolutionary aspects of which you are speaking are not the same. Thad Elon is a mutant. I am a mutant. You are a mutant. Our mutations are not a biological form adapting to its environment. Developing webbed toes to propel oneself in water, for instance. As you said, Thad Elon cannot die. If his entire universe is destroyed, he will be translocated to another universe within the multiverse. That is no mere biological mutation.”

“And? I can’t do that. I can’t do anything remotely like that.”

“Thad Elon suggested it is we Boranjame who continually hurl you against him, but that is not entirely true. All mutants are connected via the original sundering of the universe. We do not merely occupy this flawed reality. We are a consequence of it,” he said.

“I just don’t understand how I can stop Thad Elon. Or how any mutant can. Look at that city above us. If I somehow had 500 Ontakian plasma bombs, I couldn’t get rid of that thing, let alone understand it.”

“No. But you have a surprising history, across realities, of slowing and obstructing the machinations of Thad Elon. That is more than can be said of any other mutant. And it is the reason why Gax wished to bring you here. He had originally wanted to send the one you know as Frank, but the First and Last murdered him.”

“Oh. So it was Thad Elon that killed my uncle?” I asked.

“Frank was not your uncle.”

“I knew it! He was just some guy, wasn’t he? A con man ripping me off and beating me up and feeding me fake tales about my past. I knew I should have killed him myself,” I said, upset I had been lied to all these years.

“Frank was not your uncle. Frank was you,” he said.

“What?”

“Just as you have been sent here, Frank was the Hank from another universe. One that had likewise been destroyed by Thad Elon. In fact, that Hank had seen two separate universes eradicated by the First and Last before coming to yours.”

“So he was billions of years old?”

“No. Older than you, but not nearly that old.”

“Why did Thad Elon kill him?”

“Because Hank uncovered his activities. He had been the operative of Gax.”

I was stunned. The asshole Frank was actually the asshole me. I wasn’t sure if that made it better or worse.

“So he wasn’t just a big jerk?” I muttered mostly to myself.

“What you perceived as Frank’s coldness may have been in consequence of witnessing two universes, and all its inhabitants, destroyed. And, as everyone else, he was unable to do anything to prevent it.”

“Is this like a special universe or something?” I asked. “Is that why he was going to be sent here—and I came in his place?”

“It is no more special or mundane than any other. Though each is of course special. Which is why it is a tragedy when Thad Elon removes them.”

“How many has he destroyed?” I asked.

“Countless. In this universe alone, there are enough Thad Elons that they are capable of fabricating the city overhead.”

“Are they all waiting up there?” I asked.

“No. They are at every corner of this cosmos, attempting to enact their plans.”

“And he’s eventually going to erase everything and leave us with a big old…nothing? It’s obvious, even to me, that no one could stop him across every single universe,” I said.

Gax was quiet for a long while.

“If there is any shred of hope, it’s in this: Thad Elon does not need to be halted in every universe.”

“What do you mean? Why not?” I asked.

“Because if his plans are thwarted even once, even by accident, then an entire universe will be spared. Thad Elon must succeed in every instance for him to truly achieve his goals. But he only has to be defeated one time,” he said.

“And you don’t think that can happen?” I asked.

“No. I do not. But the Marquor of Lunacy, Gax, the Unfathomable and Disreputable believed there was something you could do. If not directly, then as an example or experiment. So that we might, one day, be able to prevent absolute eradication. I have grave doubts that even a single universe can be saved. But if you wish to attempt it, I shall not interfere—as a courtesy to the one who sacrificed himself to send you.”





CHAPTER 26


Home



I’ve come to learn that you never make small talk with a god.

You never speak about the weather, or a minor league sports team, or if your new trousers are flattering or make you look like a cement mixer stuck in a ditch.

No. Talking with gods is always big. And it’s always terrible.

They are the worst conversationalists. If you ever get a call, and it’s a god, or demigod, or space god, or other celestial being, either don’t take it or hang up. And then throw away your tele and run.

No god is calling you with good news. Why would they?

I’m not sure which scenario was worse. Either I was supposed to fight the infinite, omnipotent, immortal Thad Elon, or no one could fight him.

In either case, things were bleak.

There was an unmistakable sense that the future of life—all life—was void. That was darker than dark humor. You know: “We all end up as fertilizer.” Or whatever.

No. Not fertilizer. Not fish food. Not soil or dust or atoms.

At some point, everything was going to be nothing.

I took a bus ride to clear my head. And, of course, I went the wrong way on the wrong line. As misfortune would have it, I ended up near my idiotic statue. It was just a short walk so I decided to go admire the bird crap.

It was dusk at this point, and the ubiquitous artificial lighting kicked up the wattage to compensate. Never a dark moment in Belvaille—at least in a literal sense.

I still didn’t appreciate any deeper meanings to the sculpture. It was a big ball. It could just have easily been a memorial to eyeballs, or kidney stones, or just a really large ball bearing that they had stolen from an industrial turbine and slapped a tiny, one-sentence plaque onto. That was probably what happened.

“Wonderful evening for a stroll,” someone said.

I turned and was about ready to punch whatever fool had spoken. Not because they did anything wrong, I was just in a really foul mood.

“Cliston!” I exclaimed.

The golden Dredel Led stood just a few paces behind me. This was the first time I had seen him in this universe. As far as I could tell he was completely identical to the version I had known. Everyone else had subtle or non-subtle differences. But not Cliston.

It was as if every universe was given a task of constructing the perfect butler and they went off alone and each one individually came up with Cliston. Because what could be better?

“It is Cliston, right?” I asked, suddenly worried I had mentally gushed about a lookalike.

“It is indeed, sir. Wondrous to have you returned,” he said, the bottom of his jowly face flapping, his red eyes glowing.

“I’m not really ‘returned.’ I’m a different Hank,” I began.

“I see. From a different reality?” he asked casually.

“How is…how did you know that?”

“Long ago, I was the chamberlain for a scientist who managed to translocate across dimensions. He even sent me a video message from that other place,” he explained.

“Really? What did he say?”

“I do not wish to misquote him—he did not speak Colmarian. And ages have passed, clouding my recollections,” he said.

“Anything will help. I’m really struggling with this,” I said.

“Very well. In the video he stated: Ahhhhhhhh!” And Cliston swung his arms wildly and kicked his legs. “That is only an approximate translation, I hasten to add.”

“I guess he had about the same luck I’m having. Did you track me here?” I asked.

“No, sir. This was mere happenstance. When I have time off, I will often come to this location and admire your monument,” he said.

“Do you get it? Is it supposed to be complimentary? Or were people taking a jab at me?”

“I suspect it is an honor to possess a monument of any sort. The regulatory hurdles alone meant it took significant efforts to erect,” he said.

“I guess that’s true. So you work in the Upper City now?” I asked.

“Among other venues. That is correct.”

“You won’t believe this, but an army of belligerent Thad Elons built that thing,” I said, pointing up.

“Yes. They did,” he replied.

“What? You knew? I’m not talking one Thad Elon. It was like, millions. And their goal is to destroy the universe. That’s probably the hidden purpose of that city,” I continued.

“I am afraid you are probably right,” he said.

I shook my head.

“So you knew that as well? That the Thad Elons are bad people?”

“I do not like assigning such labels. I had worked for several Thad Elons in the past, and I found them all to be relatively polite. Though taciturn and absorbed in their endeavors, of course.”

“You worked for Thad Elon? Multiple times? Doing what?” I asked, shocked.

“As a butler, mostly.”

“And you knew he was trying to destroy the universe—all universes?” I asked.

“I did not possess specific details, but his general objectives were fairly transparent, yes,” he said.

“Did you tell the other Hank all this?” I asked.

“No. The subject did not ever come up. And part of being a butler is keeping secrets. I did not speak of your efforts either—even after Gax killed you,” he said.

“Whoa. Could you always talk about my unspeakable death or is that something new?” I asked.

“I could always speak of it—though I never did, of course. However, I heard others make mention on the train ride a bit earlier today. They marveled that they had previously been unable to discuss it. I can only assume that had to do with either you, or Gax, or both.”

“Yeah. Wasn’t me. But how could you work for Thad Elon when you knew he was trying to destroy…everything?”

“When I was a younger robot, I had a goal of working inside of every empire and for every major species. On the whole, I accomplished that objective—though they seem to be producing empires and species with a greater regularity than I can switch occupations. I found in my travels that every race—mine included—seemed to be entirely capable of needless destruction, hatred, and maliciousness. Whether Thad Elon is better at those things or not is unknown to me. But if I restricted my work life to only genteel empires and species, then I suspect I would never work.”

“But he’s trying to kill us. All of us,” I said.

“We all die, sir. Whether it is due to a rampaging empire, a criminal network, heart disease, or Thad Elon is the question. But it seems apparent that we will be destroyed by something—even if that something is our own misguided actions.”

“That’s a pretty fatalistic attitude, isn’t it? If you’re inside a house fire, with a door open in front of you, you don’t just go, ‘meh, we all die,’ and stand there. You run out,” I said.

“I do not view it as defeatism. It seems to be a realistic view and appraisal of all intelligent life I have ever encountered. The best we can hope to do is cope with our current situations, head off any obvious, future catastrophes, and escape any burning houses we find ourselves residing in.”

“But Thad Elon is a pretty big house fire catastrophe.”

“Did you expect me, a simple butler, to eliminate him? When no one and nothing else could? That is not my function or calling, thankfully,” he said.

“Yeah, I know, Cliston. I’m just frustrated with all of this. It seems so unfair.”

“Anyone that tells you that life is not unfair is a hopeless optimist,” Cliston said.

“Yeah, right. But I don’t know what to do.”

“No one does, sir. That is what makes living interesting. If everything was laid out for us, then we would be passengers in our own existence instead of drivers.”

“And they won’t even let me drive here,” I complained.

“Your other incarnation was very poor at it. I had to send so many flowers to people you met on the road—or their next of kin.”

I sighed.

“It seems like no one cares that Thad Elon, ‘the great,’ is actively working toward dooming all of creation.”

“We all have our parts to play, sir. The best we can do is deal with what we can. That sun,” he said, pointing—even though its fading view was blocked by the Upper City—“will one day die. You cannot do anything about it. I cannot do anything about it. We can become disheartened and waste our lives in futile efforts regarding that star.”

“But he’s going to kill every star. Not just that one,” I said.

“What I am attempting to express is that everyone has a scope—their realm of influence. Whether it is limited to what you cook for dinner, your immediate friends and family, the city in which you live, or the star of a solar system, the best we can do is deal with the issues we can directly change. If everyone did that, if everyone positively affected the things in their circles of influence, from small to large, the universe would be a tremendous place.”

“I can’t speak about the last Hank,” I said, weakly. “But I’m not exactly a charity worker. I probably hurt more people than I help.”

“You have certainly hurt a great many. Your scope seems to coincide with the entire criminal world of wherever you set foot. However, your actions will briefly have effect over common people. And, most intriguingly, you have opportunities to very briefly change outcomes in pan-galactic regions. And if you can do good in that area, then—from a purely mathematical perspective—you’ve done vastly more positive than negative.”

“So you’re saying just forget about Thad Elon?” I asked.

“No, I am suggesting you worry about what you should be worrying about. Right now, it appears you can do absolutely nothing to Thad Elon. So fretting about him has no benefit. If he should veer back into your path, then feel free to act accordingly,” he explained.

“Man. It is great seeing you, Cliston.”

“Likewise, sir.”

“I hate to ask, but do you think you could loan me some money? I’m kind of sleeping on the streets right now,” I said.

“You may reside with me. While I work in the Upper City, I inhabit the Lower City. I kept your old rooms as they were as well as all your belongings,” he said.

“Wow. Like another memorial or something?” I asked.

“No, sir. I was simply awaiting your return.”
